
        Talks are set to continue after Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe refused to resign during a crunch meeting with military generals who have seized control of the country. Follow the live updates. 
     ALSO READ: AS IT HAPPENED: Mnangagwa 'helped map post-Mugabe #Zimbabwe' - report ALSO READ: AS IT HAPPENED: Mugabe: the last of Africa's 'fathers of independence' #News24Polotiki????How do you think the #Zimbabwe crisis is going to end? Will Mugabe: 
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 #Zimbabwe war veterans have declared that tomorrow will be the D-Day for President Mugabe and his wife the “mad woman”. pic.twitter.com/AIQhY1f8B3 Saturday the 18th of November have been declared an independence day as all Zimbabweans are going to March to state house to remove Mugabe from power starting from Robert Mugabe square in Harare. #Zimbabwe #Zimbabwe - I knew when they said that they were after criminal around him that nothing was going to happen! Civility is definitely a sign of weakness! SADC is a distraction diverting & diluting  focus! Already the narrative is split and changing Mutsvangwa says Joice Mujuru is not qualified to become the president of the country because she did not participate adequately in the liberation war#Zimbabwe #Twimbos Mutsvangwa says the present crisis was triggered by the treatment of Mnangagwa Mutsvangwa says he believes the treatment of Mnangagwa must have offended many young men in the military No people no constitution, so people come first and every #Zimbabwe supports the move for change in whichever way. We firmly reject the prospect of the South African government granting Zimbabwean President, Robert Mugabe, access into the country on so-called “political asylum”. #Zimbabwe Mutsvangwa calls Grace's attempts to become president "sheer madness" Watch this space tomorrow if this man is trying to stick to power like things are normal The Zimbabwe military are professionals; we are revolutionaries. War vets say all people welcome to rally on Saturday, no one must wear political regalia. People will meet as Zimbabweans to say they want President Mugabe to go 'If Mugabe becomes stubborn, we'll arrange for him to be fired Sunday,' says Zanu-PF official  Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party is reportedly gearing up to recall its long-time leader Robert Mugabe from office if the nonagenarian resists pressure from the army to quit.  Mugabe was going around with his wife stage managing rallies. Tomorrow people will come without any support.  That is the signal we want to send him and hope he makes an appropriate decision. Mutsvangwa says War vets will hold a rally at Zimbabwe Grounds tomorrow,  Saturday 18 November. Appeals to all Zimbabweans to attend.  Says if Mugabe doesn't resign today, the #Warvets will settle the scores tomorrow. #Zimbabwe #MilitaryTakeover #Twimbos pic.twitter.com/I3zZNgJsfL He makes a decision today to leave, it's up to him.

 

 Tomorrow is different. We have a rally... We are appealing
to all the population of Zimbabwe to come to that rally.

 

 He thought he had people. Tomorrow he will see.

 

 If he doesn't, we will settle the scores tomorrow

 

 Mutsvangwa says Mugabe must leave the office We are on the same page of the Zimbabwe population which has suffered 15 to 20 years of abject poverty We are here to put an end to that. We want to create hope for Zimbabwe There's an impression he makes that he did the war veteran's
a favour. No, the favour goes the other way. 

 
 Mutsvangwa says Mugabe owes him a few favours.

 Our body is not for the protection of governance, we abide by the law We change situations... We have pedigree to that Mutsvangwa says he loves the statement that this isn't a coup, but a military correction He says the military are professionals. They protect the constitution, they protect the borders of Zimbabwe... We are saluting them for what they did. They have done a fantastic job to date. They have done it in such a way that there has not been a loss of life They have done their part up to now and we are very happy Between now and tomorrow we are giving a very strong warning to Mugabe and his wife, he is done, finished. He won't be allowed to continue People in attendance claps hands following Mutsvangwa's warning War Vets have been sidelined for a long time. We hail the ZDF for the intervention . ChrisMutsvangwa @capitalkfm #Zimbabwe #WARVETSPRESSER These are guys with a historic mission. This week they made an important decision To deal with a senile old man who had lost control of his wife Mugabe capping graduates at ZOU - 17 November 2017 Source #ZBC #Zimbabwe pic.twitter.com/Fof2PnGOki Why I support this military action/coup- we are moving from a one man state to a one party state. That's one step to complete democracy #Zimbabwe  #Zimbabwecoup Lol the world is totally lost with what is happening in #Zimbabwe . #Mugabe out and performing function.  What a friendly coup @Africarevolt 
                Jump to
                top
            