
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     In the 14th instalment in the series, 'Declassified:
Apartheid Profits', we reveal documents that confirm an uncomfortable truth
about the People's Republic of China's support for the apartheid government.
This article is drawn from the research for the book Apartheid Guns and Money: a Tale of Profit. A 'special concert'
held at Pretoria's State Theatre in March 2015 launched the 'Year of China in
South Africa'. The pomp and ceremony confirmed South Africa's place as China's 'Strategic
Comprehensive Partner'. In turn, the governing African National Congress (ANC) praised
China as "a guiding lodestar of our own struggle." These deepening
political and economic relationships draw on an official history that tells of China's
support for the struggle against apartheid. The truth, as recently
revealed in Apartheid Guns and Money is
much more complex, and potentially embarrassing for both parties. The evidence
is drawn from recently declassified South African military intelligence document.
If these had remained hidden, we would remain blissfully ignorant of the
sustained and sinister support for the apartheid regime by communist China.  Despite being an ally
to the liberation movements and a permanent member of the UN Security Council,
China was in fact supplying the apartheid military with guns and bombs from at
least 1980. Indeed, as the documents show, it was the mounting pressure on
Western countries to cut all ties with apartheid South Africa that seems to
have pushed China into a closer alliance with Pretoria. According to official
accounts, there were no diplomatic or trade relations between The People's
Republic of China (PRC) and apartheid South Africa. The public face of this
relationship was one of mutual contempt and disdain. Pretoria professed to be a
staunchly anti-communist bulwark against Soviet expansion in Africa. To
underscore this alignment, the apartheid government recognised the legitimacy
of Taiwan, China's arch-enemy, over mainland China's. In return, from the
1950s, China backed the liberation forces fighting to overturn the apartheid state.
During the Sino-Soviet conflict of the 1960s and '70s, it supported the Pan
Africanist Congress (PAC) over the Russian-backed ANC. However, following
Oliver Tambo's visit to China in 1975 and a follow-up meeting in Lusaka in
1982, the relationship between the ANC and Beijing seemed back on track. Like many countries
profiled in this series, the PRC proved to be at ease playing both sides. In an
interview, apartheid spy Craig Williamson revealed that he was among a group of
National Party (NP) politicians who welcomed a Chinese delegation on a covert
visit to South Africa in 1988. Declassified documents confirm this and in the same
year, the Minister Trade and Industry, Danie Steyn, who ran a sanctions busting
unit called 'Unconventional Trade', sent a 'top-secret' letter to PW Botha. In
it, he confirmed the visit and positive developments in trade relations between
Beijing and Pretoria. During this 'unofficial' visit, South Africa and China
shared technology and forged trade deals. These included deals for power
station cooling technology, communications systems for mining, minerals, maize
and even brandy and fruit juice.  This 1988 visit was
not the first step to opening up the relationship as the Cold War waned. Rather
it was the culmination of a decade long clandestine relationship. It wasn't
only brandy and fruit juice that the apartheid regime was trading with China.
The South Africans were also in the market for guns and bombs. It appears that this trade
had started by the early 1980s and was obscured by the use of a codename for
the PRC, probably drawn from the popular local beer brand, 'Hansa'. This
illegal arms trade was facilitated directly by the South African military, with
the help of Military Intelligence, and an Armscor front company. In this case, the weapons
were sent from China's state-owned arms company, the military industrial
behemoth Norinco, to the South Africans. From there it was distributed with the
complicity of the Chinese state to Pretoria's allies: UNITA in Angola and
RENAMO in Mozambique. The list of weapons paints a morbid picture and in one
recorded deal included rocket launchers, AK47's, 20,000 rounds of ammunition,
and 200 bombs weighing 250kg each. To hide the trade from
prying eyes, and to allow both parties to keep a discreet distance, a middleman
was needed. They found a mutual friend in Mobutu Sese Seko's Zaire (now the
Democratic Republic of Congo, DRC). Mobutu a renowened kleptocrat was an ally
of UNITA's Jonas Savimbi and close to Washington, Paris, and enjoyed a good
relationship with Pretoria's military intelligence. A classified Foreign
Affairs memo dated the 2nd of March 1983 details how the conduit was
set up. Zaire, with Mobutu's sign-off and for a fee, provided the end user
certificates fraudulently identifying Zaire as the final destination for the
weapons. In order to complete the ruse, an Armscor front company registered in
Geneva, named Adam Export, was used to obscure South African involvement. Zaire
agreed to allow two South Africans, through Adam Export, to act on Zaire's
behalf' in contracting with Norinco.  Obscuring the nature
of the contract was one thing, but ensuring the actual shipment was another
challenge. During one such shipment in 1985, dubbed 'Operation Kauka', the
cover was almost blown. The plan was to ship 282,000 kg of Chinese weapons, valued
at around $5 million, from Shanghai to Durban via the Zairean port of Matadi –
this would become a well worn sanctions busting route. The cargo would be
transported by a Danish-registered ship, the Vinderslevholm. The original plan was
to was to label the goods being re-exported from Matadi as coffee destined for
Maputo in Mozambique. However, due to logistical issues in Zaire, this plan
became untenable and another had to be hatched on the fly.  In May 1985, with the Vinderslevholm due to arrive in Matadi
any day, it was decided that the guns and bombs – on paper at least – would
become bicycles, cooking sets and ploughs. This 'agricultural shipment' would
be attributed to a Pretoria-based front company, Rust Enterprises. Even with this new
plan, as the ship docked in Matadi on the 10th of May 1985, the cover
was nearly blown. The whole operation was put at risk when a Russian ship unexpectedly
docked 20 metres from the Vinderslevholm.
The Russian crew were none the wiser, but they were within spitting
distance of the illicit cargo that if uncovered, could have blown the whistle
and exposed the entire operation. Despite these close shaves, the cargo made it
to Durban and in all likelihood into the hands of UNITA and RENAMO fighters.  In the second half on the 1980s, secret trade
between Red China and apartheid blossomed, it was a 'strategic comprehensive
partnership' of a special type. Perhaps the high point of this 'friendship'
came with the cooperation on development of nuclear weapons in the late 1980s. At
this time, London's Sunday Times reported
that the two countries had signed a secret treaty which gave Pretoria access to
Peking's long-range missile technology to assist in the development of their
own nuclear arsenal. As we saw in #Declassified: Apartheid Profits - American guns, the SADF had in turn
covertly provided the Chinese with sophisticated US missile technology for
several years. China is today a
global superpower dependant on Africa's natural resources. It has nurtured a narrative
of a glorious past – a long-time supporter of the liberation movements and
independence in Africa. However, there were deep levels of duplicity in this
relationship which is not dissimilar with that of any of the great powers. Many,
many ordinary people died and suffered as a result.  These experiences from
the past underscore the need for human rights to be central to South Africa's
foreign policy. Our democratic Constitution demands that we accept nothing
less. Where these aspirations are corrupted, relations are subverted to enrich
the powerful and well connected in capitals such as Pretoria and Beijing. ** Open Secrets is an independent non-profit with a mission to
promote private sector accountability for economic crime and related human
rights violations in Southern Africa.  ** Read
more about the covert support for Apartheid by China and other global powers
in: Apartheid
Guns and Money: A Tale of Profit by
Hennie van Vuuren, published by Jacana Media. Read previous articles in the News24 'Declassified: Apartheid Profits' series:  #Declassified: Apartheid profits - who funded the National Party? #Declassified: Apartheid profits - the tap root of the National Party #Declassified: Apartheid profits – the sanctions busters toolkit #Decalssified: Apartheid Profits - Nuclear bunkers and Swiss bankers #Declassified: Apartheid Profits – André Vlerick, Banker and Bigot #Declassified: Apartheid Profits – Inside the Arms Money Machinesa #Declassified: Apartheid Profits Pretoria’s Beehive in Paris #Declassified: Apartheid Profits - Who killed Dulcie September? #Declassified: Apartheid Profits - American guns #Declassified: Apartheid Profits - Tiny Rowland: A very British spy? #Declassified: Apartheid Profits - Le Cercle: the phantom profiteers 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  