Emmerson Mnangagwa (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa is free to join the opposition after he was sacked from his position by President Robert Mugabe on Monday, opposition parties have reportedly said. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the opposition parties said that the axing of Mnangagwa from government was a confirmation of a "serious crisis within Zanu-PF party". Mugabe fired his deputy as tensions between Mnangagwa and the veteran leader's wife Grace to succeed him intensified. Grace declared over the weekend that Mnangagwa should be gone from both the government and Zanu-PF before the party's extraordinary congress in December. "It had become evident that his conduct in the discharge of his duties had become inconsistent with his official responsibilities," Information Minister Simon Khaya Moyo reportedly told a press briefing in Harare.  The opposition parties, however, said that it  was time for the ex-vice president "to repent and be a true democrat and help to bring change in the country".  Mugabe dynasty  "Mnangagwa should repent and become a true and genuine democrat. After he repents he is free to join us in the MDC as we peacefully fight to dislodge the insipidly corrupt and decadent Mugabe dynasty in next year’s elections," the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), spokesperson, Obert Gutu was quoted saying.  His counterpart, Karauone Chihwayi, from the Welshman Ncube led MDC, said that Mnangagwa's dismissal was likely going to bring an end to the "Mugabe dynasty".  Meanwhile, spokesperson for the People's Democratic Party (PDP), Jacob Mafume, said that Zanu-PF was "simple a group of cannibals who feast on each other’s political blood". Mnangagwa was the leading contender to succeed Mugabe, 93, but his abrupt removal appeared to clear the way for Grace to take over. The government-owned Chronicle newspaper published an excoriating editorial on Tuesday, accusing Mnangagwa and his supporters of being "prepared to stampede President Mugabe from power". "The President had warned his deputy time and again to desist from having grand designs to seize power unconstitutionally," the Bulawayo-based paper said. It accused Mnangagwa of "running parallel structures within the ruling Zanu-PF party and fomenting divisions". Mnangagwa, 75, a veteran party loyalist who had strong ties to the military, had not yet commented on his dismissal.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  