'Dump all those who cheered as Grace captured Mugabe,' Mnangagwa urged Harare – Zimbabwe's ex-liberation fighters are reportedly set to occupy strategic positions within the ruling Zanu-PF party to avoid power struggles that dogged the revolutionary party in recent years.  According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Zanu-PF secretary for legal affairs Patrick Chinamasa said that the party had resolved to elect a former freedom fighter as the party's political commissar. Chinamasa said that the resolution would be rectified at the party's forthcoming special congress in December. Read more on this story here  Zimbabwe acquits pastor of trying to overthrow Mugabe Harare - Zimbabwean activist pastor Evan Mawarire was acquitted on Wednesday of trying to overthrow former president Robert Mugabe in protests last year that shut down major cities and paralysed public transport. The court ruling came a week after Mugabe, who ruled for nearly 40 years, was ousted by a military intervention. "There is no evidence that he (Mawarire) urged a violent removal of government," high court judge Priscilla Chigumba said in her ruling. The judge said Mawarire had called for non-violent protests in response to the country's economic crisis. For more on this story click here  PICS: Zanu-PF 'to donate Mugabe, Grace regalia to orphanages' Harare – Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF will donate party regalia and posters with the image of former president Robert Mugabe and his wife Grace to orphanages, a report says.  According to Daily News, Zanu-PF had ordered at least 12 000 paraphernalia that raged from T-shirts, mugs and hats for over 12 000 delegates that were set to attend Zanu-PF extra-ordinary conference in December. See the pictures below from social media The regalia and posters were worth thousands of dollars, the report said. For more on this story click here  In Zimbabwe, Mugabe-era case of missing activist still looms Harare - Zimbabwe's sense of promise after the downfall of former President Robert Mugabe is bittersweet for the family of Itai Dzamara, a missing activist abducted by suspected state agents in 2015 after urging the longtime ruler to resign at a time when most Zimbabweans dared not do so. Dzamara's wife, Sheffra, and his brother, Patson, are now hoping new President Emmerson Mnangagwa, a key enforcer for Mugabe over the decades, will explain what happened to the activist after he was bundled into a car by five unidentified men. For more on this story click here  ISIS warned Egypt mosque before massacre: Sufi sheikh Cairo - A Sufi leader associated with a mosque where suspected Islamic State group gunmen massacred hundreds of worshippers in Egypt said on Tuesday the jihadists had visited the mosque to warn against holding Sufi rituals there. Friday's massacre during prayers in the North Sinai town of Rawda killed at least 300 people when suspected ISIS gunmen surrounded the mosque and opened fire. ISIS, which views some practices of the Sufi sect as heretical, had previously targeted the mystics by kidnapping one of their leaders and beheading him. Read more on this story here  Uhuru Kenyatta: back at the helm of a divided nation Nairobi - Uhuru Kenyatta, who was sworn in on Tuesday for a second and final term after a bruising election season, is the son of Kenya's founding president and a man who epitomises the country's elite. The 56-year-old US-educated multi-millionaire, whose family owns an array of businesses, properties and land, followed in his father's footsteps when he defeated his rival Raila Odinga to become president in 2013. However, securing a second term required an acrimonious and drawn-out process that has split the nation, handing him the tricky task of trying to heal deep tribal and political schisms. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  