The Department of Basic Education encourages members of the public to comment on the draft Basic Education Laws Amendment Bill. The closing date for the submission of comments is 10 November.  Angie Motshekga, minister of the department, gazetted the draft Basic Education Laws Amendment Bill in the Government Gazette for public comment on 13 October.  The draft Basic Education Laws Amendment Bill proposes to amend the South African Schools Act, 1996 (Act No. 84 of 1996), and the Employment of Educators Act, 1998 (Act No. 76 of 1998), the Sasa and the EEA respectively, to align them with developments in the education landscape and to ensure that systems of learning and excellence in education are put in place in a manner which respects, protects, promotes and fulfils the right to basic education enshrined in Section 29 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa.  The draft bill seeks to amend the Sasa and the EEA to make certain technical and substantive adjustments in order to clarify certain existing provisions and to insert certain ­provisions to cover matters which are not provided for in the existing legislation.  Comments or input must be submitted in writing in order to ensure a truly participative and inclusive process.  Comments or input received after the closing date for submission will be analysed and considered for possible incorporation into the draft bill. The department stated that during the process of developing the draft bill, all the provincial education departments were consulted, adding that this was also presented to the heads of the Education Departments Committee and the Council of Education Ministers.  These structures, and cabinet, reportedly approved the draft bill for publication in the Government Gazette for public comment after briefing a number of organisations, such as school go­verning body associations and unions involved in the education sector, on the content of the draft bill. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  