Guy Lamb (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories When the Minister of Police recently released
the 2016/17 crime statistics the 'good news' aspects of reported crime in South
Africa – namely that the number of cases of reported as 'serious crime' had
declined by 1.8% – were, as always, immediately emphasised. However, 'serious crime' includes 17
sub-categories of crime, and over the past 20 years there have been numerous
allegations by crime researchers and analysts of substantial and persistent
under-reporting for many of these sub-categories, especially the various forms
of robbery, assault, and sexual crimes. Perception surveys have suggested that this
under-reporting has been due to: a lack of trust in the police; the
inaccessibility of police stations (particularly in rural areas); adverse
notions of the utility of reporting criminal incidents to the SAPS; concerns
about being stigmatised by family and/or community members; and fears about
being further victimised by the perpetrator of the original crime (especially
in the case of domestic violence and rape). Hence, lumping all serious crimes together as
an aggregate indicator of criminal offending is unhelpful and misleading. The aggregate manner in which the crime
data and statistics are presented also masks the disproportionate nature of
violent crime in South Africa, which for decades has been concentrated in about
20 per cent of police precincts.   Most of these high crime precincts are
densely populated, infrastructurally marginalised and characterised by elevated
levels of poverty.   In addition, high crime areas are
potentially perilous for those SAPS members that are required to work within
them. That is, these spaces are forbidding and difficult to navigate often due
to a lack of streets, systematic dwelling numbering systems and lighting.
Police have been frequently at risk of being attacked by armed criminals.
Community confidence in the police is often severely lacking. Therefore in seeking to gauge a more
informed analysis of crime a focus on high crime precincts provides a more
enlightening touchstone for the state of violent crime in South Africa. Murder
as an indicator of crime Globally, murder (or homicide) is widely
regarded as one of the most statistically reliable crime categories. The reason
for this is that the occurrence of this intentional form of killing is most
often linked to a corpse, with such a corpse typically being examined by a
medical official who is required to declare the apparent manner of death. This
information is then logged in the death registry and a death certificate is
issued. This process has commonly been followed in
South Africa. Given the problem of reliability of other reported crime
categories, murder is used in many countries as a crude measure of the state of
violent crime in general. Drilling down to precinct level murder data
for the high crime areas makes disquieting reading. In many areas traditionally
affected by gang violence in the Western Cape the murder levels increased by
more than 20% compared to 2015/16 reporting year. This included Delft (28%
increase), Bishop Lavis (26% increase) and Philippi East (23% increase). In Bishop Lavis and Philippi East the
annual number of murders has in fact doubled over the past 10 years. In other
high crime areas in the Western Cape there were even more dramatic increases in
murder, such as Worcester (55% increase) and Paarl East (77% increase). Similarly in KwaZulu-Natal there have been
alarming escalations in murder cases in Kwadukuza (50% increase) and
Plessislaer (37% increase). Umlazi and Inanda have seen increases in the region
of 20% increases, and Chatsworth experienced a 17% increase. In Gauteng there have been between 20% and
30% increases in murder in Evaton, Orange Farms, Rietgat, Booysens and
Dobsonville; whilst both Ivory Park and Roodepoort experienced more than a 50%
increase in reported murder cases. In the Eastern Cape there we more than 15%
increases in murder in Idutywa and Port St Johns, and more than 26% increases
in Libode and New Brighton. There were however significant decreases in
murder in some traditionally high crime areas, such as Gugulethu (26%
reduction), Empangeni (26% reduction), Tembisa (16% reduction), Hillbrow (13%
reduction) and Mitchells Plain (13% reduction). Murders in South Africa are typically the
outcome of aggressive verbal disagreements between young men in the context of
alcohol consumption, or during the perpetration of another crime, such as
robbery.   When
masculinity encourages bravado   In some areas, gang rivalries result in
killings. Research on masculinity and violence suggests that such lethal
confrontations have been closely tied to notions of manhood that reveres
dominant and aggressive men. Such a type of masculinity encourages bravado,
weapon-carrying, excessive drinking of alcohol and dramatically increases the
risk of violent confrontations between men and groups of men in public spaces.   The link between this form of masculinity
and murder is amplified when men at risk of perpetrating violence live in
communities where there are generally high levels of interpersonal violence;
and where firearms are easily obtainable.   Consequently the role of the police in
reducing and preventing murder and other violent crime is somewhat limited.   Indeed, as the Minister of Police has
emphasised, a more professional and service-oriented SAPS is an essential
component, combined with police actions that result in the confiscation of
illegal firearms, as well as the arrest and successful conviction of
perpetrators.   However, what is ultimately required is a
whole-of-society and whole-of-government approach to reducing and preventing
violent crime. Such an approach is actually included in the recent White Paper
on Safety and Security that has been championed by the Civilian Secretariat for
Police Services. Therefore a priority for government should be the full-scale
implementation of the recommendations included in this key policy document.   - Dr Guy Lamb is the Director of the Safety
and Violence Initiative at the University of Cape Town. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  