Wayde van Niekerk (Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – A secret photograph of Police Minister Fikile Mbalula posing with a group of men, who some sources insist are crime intelligence operatives allocated to specifically work for him, has surfaced and WhatsApp messages between Jason Rohde and his mistress are revealed in court. Here are some of today’s top stories. ANC reprimands Ramaphosa over top 6 pronouncement The ANC has slammed presidential hopeful Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa for pronouncing on his preferred leaders for the party’s top 6 positions ahead of the December elective conference. Read more here. EXCLUSIVE: Leaked photo makes Mbalula crime intelligence matter murkier A secret photograph of Police Minister Fikile Mbalula posing with a group of men, who some sources insist are crime intelligence operatives allocated to specifically work for him, has surfaced. Read here. Wayde up for top IAAF award, Caster snubbed South African 400m world record holder Wayde van Niekerk has been nominated for the 2017 IAAF World Athlete of the Year award. Sport24 has more here. Cubana fined R200k for serving booze after hours on night of Manana's assault The Gauteng Liquor Board has fined Cubana in Fourways R200 000 for serving alcohol after the cut off time on the morning when former deputy education and training minister Mduduzi Manana assaulted three women. More here. Don't threaten the messenger Jacques Pauw's book, The President's Keepers, is an honest and tragic revelation of the depth of the rot in the criminal justice system in post-apartheid South Africa. Read more from Ralph Mathekga here. Madiba's place of residence to be transformed into mega-lux boutique hotel  The late Nelson Mandela’s primary residence in Houghton, Johannesburg is set to be transformed into a "presidential 5-7 star tourism product", The Mandela Presidential Centre says. See here. Lifetime announces release date for controversial Oscar Pistorius movie in SA Lifetime Africa on Monday announced an official local release date for the controversial Oscar Pistorius film.  Channel24 has more here. The renewable energy, new coal and gas-to-power IPP programmes in SA – quo vadis? According to Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, failures of governance, leadership and financial management at the national electricity utility, Eskom, are of grave concern, with contingent liabilities and government guarantees on its debt presenting a significant risk to the entire economy. Read more here. 'My penguin forever': Rohde love triangle revealed in WhatsApp record The day before Susan Rohde died, her husband Jason Rohde sent a message to his lover saying she was the one he wanted, the Western Cape High Court heard. Read here. Danish 'clitoris collector' convicted of numerous crimes Danish citizen and former Bloemfontein gun dealer Peter Frederiksen was on Monday found guilty on most of the 38 charges he faced in the Bloemfontein High Court. Read more here. Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  