James de Villiers 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – There is a "plot" to charge Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) investigators who are investigating "looting" within the police service, the police watchdog alleged on Tuesday.  In a brief statement, IPID spokesperson Moses Dlamini said the agency's investigations "have unsettled those who are busy looting South African Police Service (SAPS) resources".  "Those targeted are specifically involved in investigations against [former acting national police commissioner Kgomotso] Phahlane and in the investigation of torture and murder allegations against [North West Hawks Major-General Jan] Mabula and his North West team," Dlamini said. Read more here: NPA declines to prosecute Phahlane Dlamini also said it was "quite telling" that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has decided not to charge Phahlane for defeating the ends of justice despite "overwhelming evidence".  SAPS spokesperson Sally de Beer was unable to comment on the allegations by the time of publication. Communication  NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku told News24 that their head Shaun Abrahams has not yet made a final decision on whether to prosecute Phahlane after IPID asked the agency to review its decision not to prosecute. Mfaku criticised IPID for raising concerns through the media.  "They have a clear line of communications with us, we had a meeting where this was discussed. Why don't they talk to us directly?" Mfaku asked.  In November 2016, News24 reported that IPID had been investigating how Phahlane managed to afford the house, which he had built in 2011 and 2012.  Allegations of cash payments of at least R700 000 and money stuffed into plastic shopping bags formed part of the probe. Also read: R5bn in contracts allegedly paid to company accused of buying Phahlane cars In June, Phahlane said he "agreed to step aside" as police commissioner after engagement with Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula.  This followed hours after President Jacob Zuma appointed Lieutenant General Lesetja Mothiba as Acting National Commissioner.  Phahlane said he would use the extra time on his hands to focus on the allegations levelled against him by IPID.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  