Constantino Chiwenga (Picture: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Tanks outside Zimbabwe capital a day after army chief threat Harare - Zimbabwe was on edge Tuesday as army tanks were seen outside the capital a day after the army commander threatened to "step in" to calm political tensions over the president's firing of his deputy. The Associated Press saw three tanks with several soldiers in a convoy on a road heading toward an army barracks just outside the capital, Harare. While it is routine for tanks to move along that route, the timing heightened unease in this southern African country that for the first time is seeing an open rift between the military and 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe. The military has been a key pillar of Mugabe's power since independence from white minority rule in 1980. For more on this story click here  WATCH: Zimbabwe 'on edge' after army chief threatens coup Harare – Zimbabwe is reportedly "on the edge" after the country's army chief demanded a "stop" to the purge in President Robert Mugabe's ruling Zanu-PF following the sacking of vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. General Constantino Chiwenga told a media conference attended by at least 90 senior army officers at the army headquarters in Harare on Monday that: "The current purging which is clearly targeting members of the party with a liberation background must stop forthwith." Read more on this story here  Sacked Mnangagwa 'is author of his current problems', says ex-Mugabe aide Harare – Former Zanu-PF secretary for administration Didymus Mutasa has reportedly said that ex-vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa is the "author of his current problems", adding that he won't shed tears over his recent expulsion. Mnangagwa was kicked out of both government and the ruling party last week following accusations that he was plotting to topple President Robert Mugabe from power. Mutasa, who was also expelled from Zanu-PF together with ex-vice president Joice Mujuru and over 100 other top Zanu-PF officials on various charges, including plotting to topple the nonagenarian, said he would never shed tears for Mnangagwa. For more on this story click here  Ex-minister hits out at 'docile, passive' Zimbabweans Harare – Zimbabwe's former war veterans minister Tshinga Dube, who was dropped from President Robert Mugabe's cabinet in August has lashed out at Zimbabweans for remaining "passive as their rights continue to be trampled upon". According to New Zimbabwe.com, Dube was given a standing ovation by Members of Parliament at a pre-budget seminar in Victoria Falls last week after he took a swipe at "docile" Zimbabweans. Dube expressed his shock at how Zimbabweans continued to sleep in queues at banking halls and not take action over the country's worsening situation. For more on this story click here  WATCH: 'We're prepared to die for Mugabe,' say Zanu-PF youths after army threats Harare – Zimbabwe's Zanu-PF youths say they are "prepared to die" in defence of President Robert Mugabe's government, a day after the military threatened to intervene if the nonagenarian doesn't rein in his warring Zanu-PF lieutenants.  In a statement on Tuesday, Zanu-PF's secretary of the youth league Kudzai Chipanga said that Zanu-PF youths did not take lightly the military's threats. "We as Zanu-PF youth league are a lion which has awakened and found its voice, therefore we will not sit idly and fold our hands whilst cheap potshots and threats are made against Mugabe," Chipanga said.  Read more on this story  Kenya court set to hear petitions challenging repeat vote Nairobi - Kenya's Supreme Court is poised to hear petitions challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election in a repeat presidential poll. The court made history when it nullified Kenyatta's re-election in August. It cited irregularities and illegalities in the vote count and the electoral commission's failure to allow scrutiny of its servers to dispel opposition leader Raila Odinga's claim of fraud. It then ordered a new vote. There are concerns about intimidation after the court failed to find a quorum to consider a petition seeking to postpone the repeat presidential election on October 26, a day after a bodyguard of one of the judges was shot. For more on this story click here  Senegal vows stricter driving laws after 50 pilgrimage deaths Saint Louis - Senegal vowed on Monday it would introduce a long-delayed points system for its drivers after more than 50 people died on the roads during a week of Muslim pilgrimage to a holy Sufi site. Transport Minister Abdoulaye Daouda Diallo told journalists in northwestern city Saint-Louis that the application of the law was "irreversible" and would be enforced from 2018, though it had initially been announced to start this year. Diallo was attending a memorial for 25 victims of a single accident in northern Senegal after a minibus packed with pilgrims heading to the central city of Touba collided with a bus on November 6. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  