Jenni Evans Jason Rohde, who is accused of murdering his wife Susan on July 24, 2016, appears in the Western Cape High Court. (Jenni Evans, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – The day before Susan Rohde died, her husband Jason Rohde sent a message to his lover saying she was the one he wanted, the Western Cape High Court heard on Monday. "This weekend made me realise just how much I don't want to be with sue [sic] anymore," said a text from Jason's phone to his estate agent girlfriend Jolene Alterskye, read out by data extraction expert Warrant Officer Anna-Marie van Niekerk.  "All I can think of is you. I want to scream with frustration. I don't want anything more in my life than to be with you." AS IT HAPPENED: 'You are going to die today' - messages between Susan, Jason Rohde Alterskye replied at 10:02: "My penguin forever." Later that morning of July 23 at 10:47.36, Jason wrote to Alterskye to say: "I absolutely hate it. I just want it to end." He followed up at 10:49 with: "Having you close is driving me crazy. Sue is driving me nuts!!!!! She follows me around like a f***ing shadow." Increasingly angry messages The CEO of Geffen International Realty Franchises was at the glamorous Spier wine farm in Stellenbosch for Sotheby's International conference. His lover and his wife were also present. The court heard previously that Susan had found out about her husband's affair last year. As the day wore on Susan and Jason exchanged a series of increasingly angry messages with Susan calling Jason "devious" and saying at one point: "You are going to die today and so is she." Early on the morning of July 24, Susan and Alterskye exchanged a number of expletive-laden messages.  At 07:06, Susan writes to Alterskye: "Jason said you were only good for one thing and that's why he keeps coming back. He said you would be the last person he ever wanted to be with." Later that morning Susan was found dead in the couple's bathroom. During cross-examination, Van Niekerk said the last message sent from Susan's phone was at 08:02 on July 24, 2016. The trial was adjourned until Tuesday for a psychologist to testify. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  