Marelize Potgieter PHOTO: Supplied 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The young girl who earlier this year had South Africans on the edge of their seats after she went missing for five long days wrote her final primary school exam last week. It’s going well with thirteen-year-old Anchen Muller and she’s looking forward to starting high school next year. “But I also think she’s a bit anxious,” says her father, Reynhardt. “Luckily her marks have improved and she’s doing really well.” According to her dad, with whom she’s staying, she’s excited about the summer holiday that lies ahead, but they haven’t yet made any plans for Christmas.  The country held its breath when it came to light on Monday 21 August that Anchen had been missing since the previous Friday. According to her mother, Hanlie Ferreira, she was supposed to stay over at a friend’s home on the Friday night, but she wasn’t sure if she had. Anchen, from Brackenfell in Cape Town’s northern suburbs, was found in a shack in Bishop Lavis on the Cape Flats on the Tuesday night. She was apparently with a friend at his parents’ house, also in Bishop Lavis, but he’d asked her to leave because his parents were arguing.  Hanlie told YOU in September that her daughter had struggled to come to terms with the loss of her maternal grandmother, Marie Ferreira, who died suddenly of cancer last November. Marie spoiled Anchen rotten, says Hanlie.  “If Anchen wanted an expensive pair of sneakers, she got it. She also bought Anchen a lot of new clothes. After her passing Anchen changed almost overnight.”  Why exactly her daughter ran away she doesn’t know, says Hanlie. “It’s clear that something’s bothering her.” Asked if his daughter shows any signs of emotional trauma after the incident, Reynhardt says you’d swear nothing had happened.  “She’s just carrying on.” According to him her schoolfriends were incredibly supportive after her disappearance, and several of her classmates wrote her encouraging letters. She apparently sees a counsellor once a week, and her relationship with her father is good. “We have a good understanding, but you know how teenagers are.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  