(iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Get a glimpse into the illicit gun trade, a Blue Bulls rugby player allegedly beat up a man, are SA's anti-corruption crusaders racist? and Ezra Miller talks to Channel24 about The Flash.   Have a look at this list of our stop stories: Hunting rifles, drugs and child suspects: What guns seized in Cape Town reveals The confiscation of several firearms by police in gang hot spots around Cape Town is providing some insight into the illicit gun trade, and just how entrenched the problem of illegal weapons is. Caryn Dolley filed this report SA eyes 2023 RWC prize as bitter battle ends The fog of war that has afflicted the race to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup will lift on Wednesday and is expected to reveal South Africa as outright victor to stage the quadrennial showpiece. Read the story on Sport24 Man in coma after alleged nightclub assault by Blue Bulls rugby player A 38-year-old man is in a coma after he was allegedly assaulted by a Blue Bulls rugby player at a nightclub in Pretoria. Find out more SA EXCLUSIVE: Ezra Miller' secret to getting ready for The Flash Channel24’s Alex Isaacs flew to London to talk to Ezra Miller about his role as The Flash in DC’s Justice League. Click here                                   Ezra Miller as The Flash (Photo: Warner Bros/Supplied) Are South Africa's anti-corruption crusaders racist? For some South Africans government corruption is not simply linked to the dangers of any political party with a super-majority. To them, Jacob Zuma is corrupt, because he is black, writes Sisonke Msimang. Read 'We're prepared to die for Mugabe,' say Zanu-PF youths after army threats Zimbabwe's Zanu-PF youths say they are "prepared to die" in defence of President Robert Mugabe's government, a day after the military threatened to intervene if the nonagenarian doesn't rein in his warring Zanu-PF lieutenants. Watch Rumours of my suspension are 'fake news' - Mantashe ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe says the "fake news" of his impending suspension is a desperate act in the fierce battle for leadership ahead of the ANC elective conference. More Mother tells court how she found her son dead in school toilet The Chebeng community has turned out in force at the Limpopo High Court for the first day of the damages trial being brought against the state by the family of Michael Komape. Full story Fleeing the scene of a 'hit-and-run' is criminal in SA... even if it's just a scratch A crash is a crash in South Africa, no matter how insignificant the damage might seem. Wheels24 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  