Paul Herman Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. (Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa appears to be leading the African National Congress presidential nominations in the Western Cape, according to preliminary figures. The province will be holding its provincial general council in Cape Town on Sunday, where all branch nominations will be tallied, read out and finalised. Initial indications coming from the Western Cape this week, which News24 has seen, showed that Ramaphosa is in the lead with 63% of the nominations, after about 78% of the votes were tallied. This equates to roughly 120 delegates, who could be sent to the party's national elective conference next month in support of Ramaphosa, compared to Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma's 26. Dlamini-Zuma is the other frontrunner. The figure has since risen to just above two-thirds as of Wednesday evening, a source told News24 on Thursday. Forty branch nominations were still outstanding on Monday ahead of this weekend's provincial general council meeting, while four were not in good standing. Around 15 branches have lodged disputes over the results of their branch nominations. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa set for presidential nod from ANC in Gauteng However, provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs told News24 that none of the results have been finalised. He said they would be finalised at this weekend's provincial general council meeting. Provisional estimates, especially those circulating on social media, were not official. It is the third province where Ramaphosa seems to hold a significant margin over Dlamini-Zuma, who is vying to become the party's first female president. She is expected to take substantial leads in KwaZulu-Natal, the Free State and the North West. Smallest ANC province by delegates The Western Cape was initially expected to take 182 delegates to the national conference - the smallest of all the provincial delegations in the ANC. At their branch general meetings (BGMs), branches were also expected to decide on a number of key positions, including the ANC's top six and the party's 80 national executive committee posts. Each branch was also expected to debate its stance on several key policy proposals decided on at the party's national policy conference in June. Those topics include monopoly capital versus white monopoly capital, radical economic transformation and land. READ: ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa in the lead with 74% of nominations tallied - IRR The Western Cape ANC has been dogged by infighting this year, following a public fallout between provincial and regional leadership, centred on the decision to disband the Dullah Omar regional leadership in June. The party's national executive committee had to visit the province on two occasions to smooth things over between the Western Cape factions. The national leadership race has been at the heart of the heightened tensions in the Western Cape for the ANC. The ANC Youth League in the province has also seen disagreements play out in public, most notably over the ANCYL's formal backing of Dlamini-Zuma for president. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  