
        Christopher Panayiotou, accused of murdering his wife, Jayde, along with his co-accused Sinethemba Nenembe, have been found guilty of murder in the Port Elizabeth High Court.  The sentencing has been postponed to November 17.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Court reconvenes. Case is postponed to 17 November for sentencing. Chetty asks if they are ready to proceed with sentencing. Price asks for court to stand down to the 30th of November, 1 December. Price says to consider application for leave to appeal.  Chetty says he is satisfied that the guilt is proven beyond any reasonable doubt. Accused 1 guity on count 4. Accused 3 guilty on murder and robbery. Accused 4 guilty of consipracy to commit murder. Chetty addressing evidence led by Vumazonke's aunt.  Chetty dealing with evidence linking Nenembe to the crime. He says evidence shows that Nenembe and Vumazonke were in the Etios on the day Jayde was murdered. He says this is further supported by the connection to the rocklands cell tower at the time when the Etios passed, on the way to where Jayde was murdered. Chetty says that that accused 4's continuous proximity to Sbeko showed that he had knowledge of and agreed with the plot to murder Jayde. Chetty says the fact that Sbeko's presence during the shooting could not be proven was irrelevant in terms of the first charge, which is of conspiracy to commit murder. Chetty says the fact that the data does not link accused 4 to the day of the murder, does not necessarily count in his favour. Chetty says the evidence needs to be considered in it's totality. Chetty says the car tracker details showed how the accused had engaged in recognisance of the premises.  Chetty deals with the involvement of accused 3 and 4. Chetty says prior to 7 April there was no contact between Vumazonke and accused 3 and 4. Chetty is dealing with case law relating to his dismissal of the papers submitted by Daubermann.  Chetty says that the matter was stood down for them to go through Botha's report. The matter was then stood down. Chetty says that neither Price nor Daubermann called their own experts. Chetty now moves on to the evidence relating to cellphone towers.  As Captain Swanepoel was phoning the number, M’Lord, the Xhosa lady attempted to leave the room.I asked her where she is going to, M’Lord; she then turned around, she had a gown on, M’Lord. She turned around and opened the gown like this, showing us that she has got nothing in her possession.  As she opened the gown, M’Lord, you could see a cellphone’s face lighting up in her gown pocket. That phone was then handed over to us, M’Lord, and we identified it as the phone that we were looking for that Mr Sibeko was using at the time. I then requested him to allow meto search him, as I was looking for a cellphone, M’Lord; I couldnot find a cellphone on his possession 5 and he informed methat he had left his phone in the bedroom that he was sleeping in.  When I got to the bedroom, M’Lord, there was an elderly lady busy making up the bed in the room, M’Lord.  I did not find any cellphones in that room, M’Lord. I then requested Captain Swanepoel to phone the number so that we could see where this phone is. Chetty says the argument that the police had failed to link the phone to Sibeko, was a skewed version of events. Chetty reads from the record regarding Bosch's testimony. Chetty now deals with the linking of the phone number to Zolani Sibeko: 184.	Warrant Officer Shane Bosch testified that after the cellular phone number 07829686192 was identified as a number of interest Captain Swanepoel requested him to ascertain who the number belongs to. He contacted the number and indicated to the person answering the phone that he could win a talk time voucher.  After answering a random question correctly he requested the person to furnish his name and address in order for the voucher to be delivered. The individual indicated that he is Zolani Sibeko and he resides at 19 Manase Street, Zwide, Port Elizabeth. Bosch further testified that at a later stage he assisted with the arrest of accused 4. After accused 4 had been arrested Bosch wanted to know where his cellular phone was. Accused 4 indicated that the phone was in his room. Bosch seized the phone from the possession of an elderly lady inside the room. It was confirmed that the phone belongs to accused 4. Bosch further testified that when Captain Swanepoel phoned the number 07829686192, the seized phone rang and the screen lit up.  Chetty says the objection that accused 3's cell no was inadmissible as it was hearsay was overuled. Chetty says evidence given relating to student records that linked Nenembe to a cell number was an invasion of privacy was also dismissed. Chetty deals with the maps dealing with the movement of the etios in the lead up to and day of the murder. Chetty says while it was known that there were co-conspirators, their identities were at the beginning unknown. Chetty says the state then went about piecing together evidence from cellphone records. Chetty says that the evidence deduced was the Toyota Etios, which had been rented at ZEMS by Vumazonke. Chetty says that the suggestion made that a white Opel Corsa was made was clearly due to an erroneous observation made. Court reconvenes. Chetty resumes his judgment. Court adjourns for lunch. We are back at 2:15 
                Jump to
                top
            