Andisiwe Makinana Naledi Pandor. Picture: Marnus Meyer 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The campaign lobbying for deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to be elected ANC leader at next month’s national conference is punting Naledi Pandor as an astute politician with a credible record who will fight corruption, specifically state capture. “Naledi Pandor is one of the trusted, clean deployees of the ANC in government; even in the national executive committee (NEC) she brings a fresh breather of political sense to any discussion,” said ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu, one of Ramaphosa’s chief campaigners. Ramaphosa revealed Pandor would be running as his deputy president candidate, after months of speculation that Lindiwe Sisulu would join his campaign.  The housing minister is now busy with her own campaign to become ANC president. Sisulu in fact wanted Ramaphosa to be her deputy. This week, Mthembu spoke glowingly of Pandor. He described her as “a child of the ANC, born and bred in an ANC home from an ANC parentage and grand parentage”. Pandor is the daughter of the late ANC and Inkatha Freedom Party veteran and former deputy minister Joe Matthews. Her grandfather is the legendary ANC leader ZK Matthews.  To those who claim that Pandor may not have a constituency, Mthembu replied: “Her constituency is the ANC.  "That’s why she is one of those people who will not allow that constituency to be sold to the highest bidder. She will not because that is her only constituency.” He said Ramaphosa’s so-called winning team are people who can lead the renewal of the ANC and restore its integrity.  “When you see a Naledi Pandor in the top leadership of the ANC and in the top leadership of our government, you are already giving confidence to our people that the ANC means business. "They have a capability to bring about the renewal of the ANC.” Some of Ramaphosa’s comrades criticised him for announcing his team and accused him of promoting slate politics. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, whose name was among those Ramaphosa announced, issued a statement on Monday rebuking leaders for making their line-ups known ahead of the conference.  “Such pronouncements are unacceptable, whether comrades have a preference or not, and seek to usurp the entrenched right of the branches to nominate candidates of their choosing,” he said. Mthembu told City Press they agreed with Mantashe’s statement.  However, he said it should apply equally to the ANC Women’s League and its leader Bathabile Dlamini, to the ANC Youth League and to President Jacob Zuma, who had made statements favouring his ex-wife, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. In his defence of Ramaphosa, Mthembu pointed out that he only made his pronouncement at the end of the branches’ nomination process. This was in contrast to all the rest, who spoke long before branches had finished their work. “They were out there making their preferences known as members of the NEC, when the NEC had discouraged slate politics. They were already encouraging and influencing branches before the start of the nomination processes. “He [Ramaphosa] has not influenced any branches, because the nominations are coming to an end now,” he said. The choice of candidates and election processes would be discussed at the national conference, in order to allow for open contestation and for members to engage the candidates. “I also think people should be comfortable to say ‘these are the people I will be comfortable working with’, notwithstanding who has a right to nominate.  "But these are good people in my view, who are incorruptible.” However, numerous Ramaphosa supporters in branches had nominated Lindiwe Sisulu and Zweli Mkhize for the position of deputy president. TALK TO US Should ANC members be allowed to announce their preferred candidates before branches have had their say? SMS us on 35697 using the keyword PANDOR and tell us what you think. Please include your name and province. SMSes cost R1.50 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  