
        The defence in the Henri van Breda murder trial is expected to call Dr James Butler as a witness after Van Breda was diagnosed with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy.
      
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Case adjourned until November 27. Judge Desai says he wants the case completed by the end of the month. #VanBreda Dr Butler only has 1 paragraph relevant to 2h40m #VanBreda can't remember. Adv Botha says he has asked the expert to elaborate on this. Judge Desai says trial now being unduly prolonged. Accepts explanation that witness is unexpected and may be relevant; in interest of justice. Adv Botha says that there is a paragraph in the neurologist report which deals with the 2hr 40 min and that is what they want to elaborate @CapeTownEtc #vanbreda Judge Desai says Dr Butler is an expert witness and if his evidence is significant, State may want to consult another witness. Adv Galloway says she will deal with this before November 27. #VanBreda Adv Botha asks for matter to be adjourned until next Monday, 27 November. Also allows Galloway to deal with consultations. Desai suggests this coming Monday, saying: "I want to get on with my life". So do I, replies Adv Botha. #VanBreda Judge Desai jokes that he wants to get on with his life :-) @CapeTownEtc #vanbreda The report of Neurologist impacts the psychologist report we should be able to finalise the matter in 2 days requests a pp to Monday 27 November 2017 #vanbreda Adv Botha says the expert will have a report compiled by Monday of next wekk, Judge Desai- Monday? I wanted to finish this case this week #vanbreda Adv Botha refers to case law which he discussed with Adv Galloway, she is no longer going to object to him calling neurologist  #vanbreda Adv Botha says defence has consulted with neurologist Dr Butler, but consultations are still underway. Refers to case law which says he may call him as a witness. Adv Galloway has told him she will not object.  #VanBreda No sign of Dr Elspeth Burke, the psychologist expected to testify as a witness in Henri #VanBreda's defence. Court starts shortly. pic.twitter.com/rBqAbo5i3H Henri #vanbreda was diagnosed with juvenile epilepsy. The defence is calling a psychologist to the stand today. pic.twitter.com/49LXoZ1obx Judge Siraj Desai is hearing the case

 

 Desai has been a judge for more than 20 years and was born
in Salt River, Cape Town.

 

 Desai was shortlisted for the position of Public Protector
which went to Busisiwe Mkhwebane

 The ties that bind: Henri van Breda and that 'Starry Night' In the almost 60 days he has been on trial for allegedly axing his 
family to death, Henri van Breda has quite often arrived at the Western 
Cape High Court wearing a tie depicting Vincent van Gogh's iconic 
painting Starry Night. Judge Desai's notable cases:

 

 Murder trial of Najwa Petersen, who was handed a 28-year
prison sentence in 2009 for her role in the murder of her husband, music legend
Taliep Petersen.

 

 Trial of 14-year-old Valencia Farmer's killers. She was
raped and stabbed 53 times in 1999.

 

 Desai led the post mortem investigation after former South
African cricket captain Hansie Cronjé died in an airplane crash in 2002. 

 Henri van Breda accused of 'selective memory loss' The State on Monday accused Henri van Breda of having selective memory 
loss, especially with regard to incriminating evidence against him. Henri van Breda spends weekend in hospital after seizure Triple murder accused Henri van Breda spent the weekend undergoing tests
 at a Cape Town hospital after he had a seizure on November 8, his 
defence lawyer told the Western Cape High Court. Dr James Butler is a neurologist at Mediclinic
Constantiaberg in Cape Town

 
 "Bad memories - like post-traumatic stress disorder -
can destroy people's lives if they hold on to them," Dr Butler said in
2012.

 I truly hope that Adv Galloway will ask the psychologist if she thinks that someone in #VanBreda's position would be able to press a panic button in the house.  I truly cannot fathom why he didn't AT LEAST press a panic button. 
                Jump to
                top
            