President Jacob Zuma. (Thuli Dlamini, Gallo Images, The Times, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Four regional countries are meeting on Zimbabwe's political crisis. President Jacob Zuma is joining the Angola-hosted summit of the Southern African Development Community, along with the leaders of Zambia and Tanzania. A committee of the regional bloc has recommended a full summit of all 16 members to discuss Zimbabwe, where longtime President Robert Mugabe faces impeachment after his firing of his deputy and positioning of the unpopular first lady to succeed him. ___ 09:45  The Zimbabwe vice president whose firing kicked off the country's political crisis says President Robert should heed the "clarion call" and resign immediately: "The people of Zimbabwe have clearly spoken." The new statement from Emmerson Mnangagwa makes clear that he remains outside Zimbabwe after fleeing and won't return until his security is guaranteed. Mnangagwa confirms that Mugabe has invited him to return "for a discussion" on the recent events. But "given the events that followed my dismissal I cannot trust my life in President Mugabe's hands." He says his security was withdrawn upon his firing and he was informed that "plans were underfoot to eliminate me once arrested." Mnangagwa says he is aware of the impeachment proceedings that start Tuesday against Mugabe and "I will not stand in the way of the people and my party." ___ 09:20  A recently fired Zimbabwean vice president and likely successor to President Robert Mugabe says the 93-year-old leader should resign immediately. Emmerson Mnangagwa says in a statement Tuesday that he is not in Zimbabwe and that he would not return to the country until he is "satisfied of my personal security." Mugabe fired Mnangagwa earlier this month, but Zimbabwe's ruling party is demanding that Mugabe resign and wants the former vice president to replace him. The ruling party is poised to begin impeachment proceedings against Mugabe on Tuesday as Parliament resumes, and it has instructed government ministers to boycott a Cabinet meeting Mugabe has called for Tuesday morning. ___ 09:00 Zimbabwe's ruling party is set to begin impeachment proceedings against longtime President Robert Mugabe, while a party official says government ministers have been instructed to boycott a Cabinet meeting called by the president. Ruling party chief whip Lovemore Matuke tells The Associated Press minutes before the Cabinet meeting is expected to start that ministers have been told to instead attend a meeting at party headquarters to work on the impeachment. Parliament resumes Tuesday. Mugabe's chief secretary on Monday summoned ministers to the Cabinet meeting at State House, the president's official residence. Mugabe is finding himself increasingly isolated. The military on Monday night said the vice president he recently fired, sparking the political turmoil, will return to Zimbabwe "shortly" and has made contact with Mugabe. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  