Maurice Botha (Grade 5) from Pellsrus Primary School won first prize.       Photo:SUPPLIED 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A regional Spelling Bee, held in Sea Vista last weekend, brought together some of the brightest learners from local schools.  This is the second year that the Spelling Bee has taken place and this year the event includes an exciting multilingual component, so that learners now have two rounds of spel-ling in a second and third language.  “Even though the competition includes se-cond and third language components, the focus remains on excellence in English and is in line with both national and international standards,” says Pieter Oosthuisen, Plant Manager for Jeffreys Bay Wind Farm. Grade 5 Pellsrus Primary School learner Maurice Botha won first prize.  The second place was shared between Antonio Matarie from Kruisfontein Primary, Zandré Deysel from Graslaagte Primary, Aldon Potgieter from Pelsrus Primary, and Antonio Rudolph from Pelsrus Primary. The participants were made up from the top shortlisted ‘spellers’, of nine participating primary schools across Hankey, Patensie, Jeffreys Bay and Humansdorp, and was funded as part of Jeffreys Bay Wind Farm’s literacy programme.  The competition was exclusive to Grade 5 learners at schools that participate in the ongoing Spellit Literacy Programme and included a prior selection process to ensure that the standard of the Spelling Bee is kept on par with international standards. “It is important that learners have the opportunity to compete in a supportive environment and gain skills, such as improved memory and the art of presenting in public,” says Oosthuisen.  Participating schools included Sea Vista Primary, Pelsrus Primary, St Patricks Primary, Kruisfontein Primary, Vukani Primary, Hankey Primary, Weston Primary, Gamtoos Valley Primary, Quagga Primary and Chigwell Primary.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  