Alex Mitchley Magistrates court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Bronkhorstspruit - A domestic worker who was allegedly raped multiple times by her boss, and allegedly forced to perform sexual acts with his dogs, has been left severely traumatised and believes her reputation is tarnished. Speaking outside the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate’s Court, where the accused appeared on Thursday, Tshwane ANC Women’s League regional secretary Gogo Ndlovana said she had been in touch with the victim, who had been in a place of safety since the incident. Ndlovana said the victim had been visited by social workers and was due to meet with a psychiatrist for a psychological evaluation on Thursday. "She is torn up and can’t express herself. She needs a lot of support. She even told me the way this has been circulating on social media has tarnished her," said Ndlovana. She added that the woman had told her that she had been forced to do explicit things with the accused’s dogs. Earlier in court, there were gasps of disbelief and shock from a packed gallery as the charges were read out in court. The 41-year-old man has been charged with ten counts, including five of rape and three counts of sexual assault, after he allegedly dragged and locked the victim in a room where he raped her repeatedly. He also allegedly forced her to perform sexual acts on his dogs at a house in Raimar Park, Bronkhorstspruit, on October 23. He was arrested last week. 'You will be facing life imprisonment' Along with the multiple charges of rape and sexual assault, the accused has also been charged with kidnapping and malicious damage to property after he allegedly broke her cellphone. A heavy police presence in court kept watch over proceedings after tensions had earlier flared up outside of court. Stun grenades were fired to prevent protesters from entering the court grounds. Magistrate Ignatius du Preez asked the accused if he understood the charges and their gravity, saying: "If you are found guilty, you will be facing life imprisonment." The accused nodded his head in acknowledgement. The accused's lawyer Ehleketani Maluleke told the court that his client had decided to abandon his bid for bail. No reason was given. State prosecutor Tiisetso Leballo requested a postponement for further investigation, as they were still awaiting the DNA results. Maluleke did not oppose the postponement but asked that the matter then be marked final. "As much as there are delays at the lab, the accused person has the right to trial (in a reasonable timeframe)," he said. Du Preez dismissed the request. The accused is expected to reappear in court February 5. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  