Amanda Khoza Mzwanele Manyi. (James Oatway, Gallo Images, Sunday Times, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - ANN7 owner Mzwanele Manyi on Thursday lambasted organisers of the Daily Maverick's The Gathering for apparently failing to invite ANC representatives. This, despite EWN's Katy Katopodis' earlier announcement that ANC presidential hopefuls Lindiwe Sisulu, Zweli Mkhize and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma had pulled out on Monday. Sisulu, Mkhize and Dlamini-Zuma were initially listed as speakers at the event. READ: Sisulu, Mkhize, Dlamini-Zuma pull out of Daily Maverick event They had been invited to speak on a panel discussing the biggest threats facing South Africa, Manyi said he was intrigued that the ANC had not been "invited" to the event, much to the audience's disapproval. "When you invite the ANC, you invite the secretary general, not presidential hopefuls," he said.   On the threats facing South Africa, he said: "We are here today because Codesa put us here." "Codesa was everything else but about the transformation of the economy." He added: "I am not here to nurse your feelings, I am here to tell you the truth. The kind of black people that you hang around do not tell you the truth." When asked what Codesa had to do with the current political climate, he said: "It laid the foundation." Manyi continued: "I think it is important to acknowledge that things were not where they were supposed to be, but it is silly to characterise it as a President Jacob Zuma issue." He said issues that had not been dealt with in the past were now unravelling. 'We need to focus on rebuilding institutions' Economist Dr Iraj Abedian disagreed with Manyi, saying business would not invest in hollowed institutions such as Transnet "in the name of fighting white colonialists". Abedian said the biggest threat facing the country was that "we are not paying attention to the economy". He said no economy could grow unless there was a functioning state. The pair spent the session going back and forth about the wrongs and the rights in the economy. However, both agreed that the country needed to deal with the inequalities in the economy. A guest was heard shouting at Manyi: "Go back to Saxonworld." When he was eventually given a chance to speak, author of The President's Keepers Jacques Pauw, said his book dealt with how law enforcement agencies had been destroyed. "The fact that there are dedicated civil servants that had left state institutions…Everyone thinks that everything is going to change when we get rid of Jacob Zuma. We need to focus on rebuilding these institutions." Pauw said when he started writing the book he underestimated the extent of the rot. Manyi dismissed Pauw's book and the pair argued about some of the evidence that Pauw had revealed in his book. At some point, Abedian told Manyi to check his facts before speaking. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  