Jan Bornman SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – Three armed cash-in-transit vehicle robbers were killed in a shootout with police in Appelsbosch, KwaZulu-Natal, after an intelligence-driven operation by the police and the national intervention unit. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the police reacted after receiving information that the suspects were planning the heist. "Unfortunately for these thugs, police officers including members of the elite national intervention unit were in the vicinity due to a proactive intelligence-driven operation. Police immediately intervened and were met with gunfire from the thugs who were travelling in two vehicles," Nqobile said. "Policed returned fire and during the shootout, three suspects were fatally wounded," she said. Gwala said one suspect was injured and taken to hospital where he was under police guard. A security guard was also injured. She said some of the robbers managed to escape in one of the getaway cars during the shootout. "Due to the police intervention, no cash was taken and the robbery was prevented," she said. Police seized three pistols, a rifle and one of the cars used by the robbers. The arrested suspect will be charged with attempted robbery, attempted murder and possession of illegal firearms and will appear in the New Hanover Magistrate's Court soon. Gwala said the acting provincial commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa, commended the police officers for their proactive action and bravery under fire.  "Police officers are deployed strategically across the province as part of our festive season operations and this is informed by intelligence at our disposal. Criminals can expect our police officers to respond more speedily and should they shoot at our police officers, they must expect our members to respond accordingly," he said in a statement. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  