Ntozakhe Mthukwane, Correspondent ANC Northern Cape premier Sylvia Lucas with Zamani Saul. (File photo: Lerato Sejake/News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Kimberley - Disgruntled Northern Cape ANC members are taking the party to court, asking for results of its May 8th provincial conference in Colesburg to be reviewed and set aside. "We have had several attempts to resolve this matter amicably, through our lawyers, without any due respect and success," Eric Khotseng said. Khotseng and the rest of the applicants filed a 600-page affidavit in the Northern Cape High Court in Kimberley. He told News24 that the disputed conference was fraudulent and that known supporters of ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma had not been invited, even though their names were on the database. Clad in a Dlamini-Zuma supporter T-shirt, Khotseng said he wondered whether ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe – one of the respondents cited in the application – "sleeps peacefully" at night. "We aren't surprised that Mantashe and the fraudulent PEC (provincial elective committee) elected at the 8th Colesburg conference have referred to us disdainfully as 'disgruntled' members," he added. 'Disgruntled members' The group claims it has the backing of more than 3 000 members and took exception to being labelled "disgruntled members". Khotseng also admitted that the group was funded by unnamed business people close to the ANC. "Every political court challenge is funded. We can't confirm or deny whether Premier Sylvia Lucas is one of our funders. What do you expect us to do when even the top five officials were elected without satisfying correct requirements? We will challenge brazen gatekeeping no matter what," he said. ANC president The group has thrown its support behind Dlamini-Zuma while the current PEC was the first to publicly back Cyril Ramaphosa for ANC president. The ANC is expected to file opposing affidavits on a date which the court has not yet determined.Speaking on behalf of the respondents, including the PEC, ANC provincial secretary Deshi Ngxanga said: "These are the actions of people who have not overcome the democratic process in May. These are people who don't want to be led." While the Northern Cape was to send 197 delegates to the ANC elective conference in December, a plethora of court actions, challenging provincial conferences in KwaZulu-Natal, the Eastern Cape and the North West, threatens its legal status. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  