Crecey Kuyedzwa, Correspondent  Picture: AP 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Most retail outlets
have opened for business despite the armed forces seizing control of the southern African country,  including the state-owned Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation.  A survey conducted by News24 by 10:00 showed that most retail
outlets had opened for business although foot traffic into the outlets was much
lower than usual. A Pick n Pay outlet which is less than 200m from the Zimbabwean
Parliament where one of the tankers and armed soldiers were stationed was open
for business, although customer count was lower than usual. A shop assistant who spoke to News24 said they had not been given the directive
to close from their Head Office. "The only communication we got is that we can close if there is any riot or
looting. We have just been told safety first, but as you can see we are
operating as usual," said the assistant in Pick n Pay. Edgars which is partly owned by Edcon South Africa was also open for business
but at the time of the survey less than 10 customers where in the outlet. It was the same story at the Truworths outlet which is stationed along Kwame
Nkuruma road, 100m away from the conned off area, was also open for
business. However Power Sales which is now run by South Africa's PEP was closed for
business. Other shops that were closed for business include Stanbic Bank and
Stanchart Bank which is 50 metres away from one of the tanks. Old Mutual office stationed 200m away from Parliament was opened for
business but with no clients coming in. Its banking subsidiary CABS was also
open for business with depositors queuing for the little that they can get from
the banks that have since limited withdrawals to as little as $20 per week. Former British owned Barclays Bank, 400m away from the President's office,
now owned by First Merchant Bank of Malawi was also open for business. Platinum miner, Zimplats's spokesperson Business Chindove said it was business
as usual at the mine and at the head office in Harare. The mine is a 158km
drive from Harare. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  