Grace Mugabe (Picture: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Two leaders of Zanu-PF's Generation 40 (G40) faction – Political
Commissar Saviour Kasukuwere and Higher Education Minister Jonathan Moyo - have
reportedly been arrested by the army. According to NewsDay, Kasukuwere and Moyo – the brains behind
G40 – were "fished out" from President Robert Mugabe's Borrowdale mansion where
they had sought refuge on Wednesday. They were handed over to the military, the report said. "The ministers had been at the house of the President and
following negotiations they were handed over and are reportedly being held at
KGVI awaiting their day in court," the source close to the developments was quoted
as saying. The
Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) on Wednesday announced that it had taken over the
country and was keeping Mugabe and his family
under guard at his home as the military was getting rid of the "criminals" around the nonagenarian.  This came after the ZDF on Monday warned the
93-year-old leader that it would intervene if he continued purging party
veterans in a bid to see his wife, Grace Mugabe, become his successor. The takeover, which has largely
been described as a coup, also saw the arrest of several ministers and members
of the so-called "Generation 40" group within the ruling party. The faction was believed to have been working to
ensure Mugabe's recently fired vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa would never
ascended to the presidency. A report on Thursday said that  "a deal has been proposed that former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa should lead a transitional government that will be constituted of stakeholders from other political parties" in Zimbabwe. President Mugabe had been given an opportunity to negotiate an exit that included state protection together with his family. "One of the priorities of the transitional government will be to restore the economy that has experienced decline in recent times," the report said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  