
        The situation remains uncertain in Zimbabwe after the army placed President Robert Mugabe and his wife under house arrest, triggering speculation of a military coup.
     READ AS IT HAPPENED: 'The old man should be allowed to rest' - Tendai Biti on #Zimbabwe's Mugabe READ AS IT HAPPENED: Zanu-PF youth leader apologises for 'big mistake' of 'denigrating' army 
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 ZANU-PF Youth League leader apologises to the army

 

 "We are still young people; we are learning from our
mistakes."

 

 Says he was not forced to make a public apology

 Tsvangirai, war vets leader Mutsvangwa fly back home 'for negotiations' Zimbabwe's Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) Morgan
Tsvangirai and war veterans leader Christopher Mutsvangwa reportedly flew back
home from South Africa on Wednesday. In topsy-turvy Zimbabwe, stocks may plunge if confidence returns If investors want a sign that confidence is returning to Zimbabwe 
following the armed forces’ seizure of power from President Robert 
Mugabe on Wednesday morning, they should look for stocks to fall. A look at deposed African leaders and where they are now As shock continues over the fate of Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe, 
who vowed to rule until death but now finds himself in military custody,
 here's a look at other larger-than-life African leaders who spent years
 in power, then lost it. Mugabe's fall was always going to be from within or by divine intervention While covering the
2008 Zimbabwean elections, a friend asked – "how expensive is a litre of petrol
and a pack of matches? Can we see our neighbours burn something to show their
anger and frustration?" A 30-year-old Zimbabwean working as a marketing officer in SA
who gave his name as Billy said it was "about time but it might be 20
years too late".

 

 He worried that one strongman might follow another: "It
may be hard in future to remove that person as well. We might have another 37
years ahead of us of a single person." - Reuters

 Zimbabweans in SA have expressed support for the coup.

 

 "I think it's a step in the right direction for a
political situation which was now a joke," said Kevin Mpofu, 28. 

 

 "The arrests that have happened so far are a
celebration for many Zimbabweans tired of the corruption and abuse of
power." - Reuters

 Army chief General Constantino Chiwenga gave an unprecedented
press conference on Monday, flanked by dozens of officers, and warned Mugabe
that he would intervene if the president continued to purge the ruling Zanu-PF
party.
 Mnangagwa has been embroiled in a long-running feud with
Mugabe's wife Grace, 52.

Both were seen as leading contenders to replace Mugabe but
Mnangagwa had the tacit support of the armed forces, which viewed Grace - a
political novice - with derision. In a sign that the military was purging the first lady's
backers, a Grace loyalist widely reported to have been detained by the army
appeared on state TV late on Wednesday. Kudzai Chipanga, leader of the Zanu-PF's youth league,
apologised for criticising Chiwenga following the general's threat to intervene
against Mugabe. "I kindly request General Chiwenga to please accept my
apologies on behalf of the youth league and myself. We are still young people,
we are still growing up. We learn from our mistakes," said Chipanga, who
shifted uneasily as he read the statement. - AFP On Wednesday the African Union issued an unusually terse
statement that said the situation on the ground "seems like a coup"
and called on the military to pull back and respect the constitution.
 Britain, Zimbabwe's colonial ruler until independence, called
for calm and warned against handing power to an unelected leader.
 "Nobody wants simply to see the transition from one
unelected tyrant to the next," said British foreign minister Boris
Johnson.
 Zimbabwe's army was set on a collision course with Mugabe last
week when he abruptly fired his vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa - a lynchpin
of the defence and security establishment.

Mnangagwa, 75, was previously one of Mugabe's most loyal
lieutenants, having worked alongside him for decades.
 But he fled to South Africa following his dismissal and
published a scathing five-page rebuke of Mugabe's leadership and Grace's
political ambition. Derek Matyszak, an analyst at the Pretoria-based Institute for
Security Studies, said he expects Mugabe and the military are thrashing out a
handover to a new head of state. "I think Mugabe can still stay in the country. I think they
would like to present him as a liberation icon and accord him due respect. "The difficulty, and this has always been the difficulty
for the Mugabe family, is guaranteeing Grace Mugabe's safety... on the demise
of Robert."
 The international community will also be watching the next phase
of the crisis closely. - AFP "Our economic situation has deteriorated every day - no
employment, no jobs," Tafadzwa Masango, a 35-year-old unemployed man, told
AFP. "We hope for a better Zimbabwe after the Mugabe era. We
feel very happy. It is now his time to go."
 Harare's residents have largely ignored the military presence on
the streets and continued commuting, socialising and working much as normal,
while analysts speculated that Mugabe and the army could be negotiating a
transition. - AFP Army General SB Moyo guarantees safety of Robert Mugabe,
saying that the army is "gathering criminals around him"

 

 Moyo says that judiciary is free to be
independent and MPs are free to "serve your constituents"

 Zimbabwe situation 'remains fluid' The US State Department says the United States is "concerned by recent 
actions undertaken by Zimbabwe's military forces" and it calls on the 
country's leaders to exercise restraint as uncertainty continues. 
                Jump to
                top
            