Oscar Pistorius outside the Pretoria High Court. (File photo: Herman Verway, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Reeva Steenkamp and Oscar Pistorius made headlines again this week, after Lifetime released the trailer for a film based on Steenkamp's fatal shooting on Valentine's Day 2013.WATCH Johannesburg - The Supreme Court of Appeal will on Friday hear the State's appeal to lengthen the jail term of double-amputee sprinter Oscar Pistorius for murdering his girlfriend. Here is a timeline of events following the shooting of Reeva Steenkamp on Valentine's Day in 2013. READ: Is this the final stretch in the Pistorius case? 2013  February 14: Police arrest the Olympic and Paralympic sprinter for killing Steenkamp, a 29-year-old model, who was shot four times at his Pretoria home. February 15: Pistorius bursts into tears as he is charged, denying murder "in the strongest terms". February 19: Pistorius claims in an affidavit he mistook Steenkamp for an intruder. He said he fired through a locked bathroom door, in what prosecutors term "premeditated" murder. February 21: Global sportswear manufacturer Nike suspends its sponsorship contract with the athlete. February 22: Pistorius is granted bail. 2014  March 3: The trial opens in Pretoria before an army of journalists from around the world, with the testimony of a neighbour who tells the court she heard "terrible screams" from a woman. Ten days later, Pistorius vomits when a picture of Steenkamp's body is flashed on the court's television screens. April 7 - 15: Pistorius takes the stand and begins with a tearful apology to Steenkamp's family. This is followed by five days of often intense cross-examination, marked by bouts of tears and breaks in the session. Pistorius steadfastly denies any intention to kill Steenkamp. June 30: After a six-week break, a panel of three psychiatrists and a psychologist conclude Pistorius does not suffer from mental illness. September 12: Judge Thokozile Masipa finds Pistorius guilty of culpable homicide or manslaughter. October 21: The judge sentences him to a maximum of five years in jail. He is taken to Pretoria prison. 2015 October 20: Pistorius is allowed out of prison after just one year to spend the remainder of his sentence under house arrest. December 3: The Supreme Court of Appeal convicts him of murder, saying his testimony was "vacillating and untruthful". December 8: Pistorius is released on bail pending sentencing, and remains under house arrest. 2016  March 2: Pistorius, now 29, loses his final bid to appeal his murder conviction. July 6: He is sentenced to six years in jail for murder, but prosecutors later appeal. August 14: South African media reports say Pistorius is put on 24-hour suicide watch. August 26: Masipa, the same judge who issued the six-year term, rejects the State appeal for a longer sentence. September 15: Prosecutors say they will petition the Supreme Court of Appeal for a tougher sentence for Pistorius, having described the current six-year term as "shockingly lenient". November 14: The prison authorities say Pistorius has been transferred to a prison adapted for disabled inmates just outside Pretoria to serve the rest of his sentence. 2017  August 3: Pistorius is taken to hospital for overnight observation, after reportedly suffering chest pains. November 3: Scheduled hearing for appeal to lengthen Pistorius' six-year term. READ: Oscar allowed out of jail for grandmother's funeral   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  