President Emmerson Mnangagwa of Zimbabwe. (Ben Curtis, AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Zimbabwe's new President Emmerson Mnangagwa has left the stadium after his inauguration. The 75-year-old's first speech as leader reached out to the nation at large, pledging "democratic" elections next year. He also made friendly gestures toward the international community as he seeks to revive a collapsed economy after years of sanctions and corruption. Zimbabwe's new president is reaching out to the world after years of sanctions and international condemnation over rights abuses, saying that "We ask those who have punished us in the past to reconsider." President Emmerson Mnangagwa also vows that "all foreign investment will be safe in Zimbabwe," addressing fears after moves by former leader Robert Mugabe to nationalise the country's lucrative resources such as diamonds. Mnangagwa inherits a southern African nation that once was prosperous but now struggles amid a severe cash shortage and high unemployment. Newly sworn-in President Emmerson Mnangagwa (R), followed by
Army Chief of Staff General Constantino Chiwenga (L) during the Inauguration
ceremony at the National Sport Stadium in Harare. (Zinyange Auntony, AFP) Zimbabwe's new president has vowed to tackle corruption after 37 years of Robert Mugabe. He said that "the culture of government must change, and change now." President Emmerson Mnangagwa has made a range of promises with the aim of reviving a once-prosperous economy that has collapsed amid mismanagement and international sanctions. He says he will reach out for more foreign investment. Zimbabwe's new president has vowing that "democratic" elections will be held next year as scheduled, and he declared that the country is renewing itself after 37 years of Robert Mugabe. President Emmerson Mnangagwa has urged Zimbabwe to move beyond the poisoned politics of the recent past. "We dare not squander this moment." He also promised to reimburse the farmers whose land was seized under Mugabe, leading to international condemnation. But he says those actions cannot be reversed. Zimbabwe's security officials have sworn loyalty to their new President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mnangagwa takes power after an extraordinary series of events that began with Robert Mugabe firing him early this month as vice president. That turned out to be the mistake that ended Mugabe's 37 years in power. Mugabe resigned on Tuesday under immense pressure from the military, the ruling party and the people amid fears his wife was trying to take power. He succeeds Robert Mugabe, who resigned on Tuesday under immense pressure from the military, the ruling party and the people amid fears his wife was trying to take power.   Zimbabwe's incoming leader Emmerson Mnangagwa is already facing calls for inclusion and free and fair elections next year. Mnangagwa was Mugabe's longtime ally before his firing earlier this month. He will serve until the end of the presidential term next year. An election date has not yet been set. Zimbabwe's opposition backed Mugabe's removal and now hopes for a bigger seat at the table to help determine the country's future. The 93-year-old Mugabe will remain in Zimbabwe, reportedly assured by his former deputy Mnangagwa of his "maximum security." Mnangagwa, a former justice and defence minister, was a key Mugabe confidant for decades until they fell out because of the presidential ambitions of Mugabe's wife, Grace. Despite his long association with the government, Mnangagwa has promised democracy. In the end, Mugabe was isolated and showing few of the political skills that kept him in power for 37 years  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  