
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Mogadishu - Thousands of Ethiopian troops have crossed into Somalia to join a large-scale offensive against al-Shabaab extremists just weeks after Somalia's worst attack left more than 350 people dead, border residents said Thursday. Somalia's president, vowing a "state of war," has visited countries in the region to seek more military support since the massive truck bombing on October 14 in the capital, Mogadishu. Somalia is preparing for an offensive with African Union multinational forces that is meant to push al-Shabaab fighters out of their strongholds in Lower Shabelle and Middle Shabelle regions, where many deadly attacks on Mogadishu and Somali and African Union bases have been launched. Somali officials have said the United States military, which this year has stepped up the fight against al-Shabaab with well over a dozen drone strikes, is expected to play a supporting role. Abdullahi Yusuf, an elder in Luq town, told The Associated Press that Ethiopian troops in tanks and armored vehicles passed through on Thursday morning toward southwestern Somalia. Muhummed Muse, a resident of Dolow town, also said dozens of armored vehicles carrying Ethiopian troops had passed through. Ethiopia's foreign minister, Workineh Gebeyehu, confirmed that troops had entered Somalia. "It is a routine or normal military activity of the Ethiopian contingent based in Somalia to support the fight against terrorism," a foreign ministry spokesperson, Meles Alem, told the AP. "Ethiopia is one of the troop-contributing countries under AMISOM," the African Union force. Last month's bombing brought collective outrage in long-fractured Somalia, with thousands of Mogadishu residents marching in a defiant rally against al-Shabaab. The country's Somali-American leader, President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, faces the challenge of pulling together regional powers while the federal government tries to assert itself beyond the capital and other major cities. Al-Shabaab in some cases controls villages just dozens of miles outside Mogadishu.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  