Iavan Pijoos High Court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – President Jacob Zuma appointed prominent advocate David Unterhalter SC and several others as judges in various High Courts in the country on Thursday. This after receiving advice on suitable candidates from the Judicial Service Commission. Zuma wished them all the best with their new responsibilities. Unterhalter, who has been involved in several high places cases, has been appointed as judge of the Gauteng High Court effectively from January 1, 2018. Some of Unterhalter's included: President of the Republic of South Africa v Masethla, which dealt with a constitutional challenge to classified documents, he headed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s legal team at the Marikana Commission, and also appeared for Earthlife Africa and the Southern African Faith Communities’ Environmental Institute, who challenged the government’s nuclear procurement process.Other high profile cases included: Eisenberg v Minister of Home Affairs – which dealt with the constitutionality of immigration regulations, and the Islamic Unity Convention v Minister of Telecommunications – which dealt with hate speech and the right to freedom of expression.  Here is the list of the other judges appointed:  - Justice Selby Mfanelo Mbenenge as Judge President of the Eastern Cape Division of the High Court, with effect from November 7, 2017. - Ndumiso Patrick Jaji as Judge of the Eastern Cape Division of the High Court, Grahamstown, with effect from November 1, 2017. - Mbulelo Stanford Jolwana as a Judge of the Eastern Cape Local Division of the High Court, Mthatha, with effect from November 1, 2017. - Advocate Philip Jacobus Loubser SC as a Judge of the Free State Division of the High Court, Bloemfontein, with effect from December 16, 2017. - Colleen Jane Collis as a Judge of the Gauteng Division of the High Court, with effect from January 1, 2018. - Advocate Norman Davis SC as a Judge of the Gauteng Division of the High Court, with effect from 1 January 1, 2018. - Maletsatsi Betty Mahalelo as a Judge of the Gauteng Division of the High Court, with effect from January 1, 2018. - Advocate Tintswalo Annah Nana Makhubele SC as a Judge of the Gauteng Division of the High Court, with effect from January 1, 2018. - Cassim Mohamed Sardiwalla as a Judge of the Gauteng Division of the High Court, with effect from January 1, 2018. - Advocate Cornelius Jacobus van der Westhuizen SC as a Judge of the Gauteng Division of the High Court, with effect from January 1, 2018. - Taswell Deverill Papier as a Judge of the Western Cape Division of the High Court, Cape Town, with effect from November 1, 2017. - Mushtak Kassim Parker as a Judge of the Western Cape Division of the High Court, Cape Town, with effect from November 1, 2017. - Advocate Mark Louis Sher SC as a Judge of the Western Cape Division of the High Court, Cape Town, with effect from November 1, 2017. - Eduard Derek Wille as a Judge of the Western Cape Division of the High Court, Cape Town, with effect from November 1, 2017.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  