Jenni Evans Slow traffic on the N1 North in Pretoria, from Zambezi Road to Centurion during the Black Monday protest. (Alex Mitchley, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     We speak to Craig Roman, an angry voter in Port Elizabeth. Roman was angry because DA leader, Mmusi Maimane and DA mayoral candidate, Athol Trollip were allowed to enter the voting station and speak to voters.WATCH Cape Town - The Nelson Mandela Foundation has asked whether it is time to ban the old South African flag after the furore it created around the Black Monday marches on October 30. "Is it time to criminalise displays of the old flag?" asked the foundation set up in the late former President Nelson Mandela's name, on Sunday. "Is there a connection between the hubris of the Black Monday protests and the deep well of rage which underlies individual cases of murder on white-owned farms? "How do we foster a collective revulsion at the murder of any South African, regardless of categorisation? Can we turn our country from one defined by violence into one inspired by Madiba's dream of freedom?" READ Black Monday: Freedom Front cries 'apartheid' The Black Monday protests were arranged as a response to the murders of farmers in SA. However, it also created a debate over whether the protesters would have been as sympathetic if victims were black. Critics also questioned whether the police would have allowed black protesters to block national highways as the Black Monday protesters did. The foundation said that it was "deeply concerned" about the "us and them" tone of the Black Monday protests which it felt had a dividing effect. "There is no doubt that the Black Monday protests have deepened divides in South Africa. "The Nelson Mandela Foundation has spent a week reflecting and consulting with stakeholders. We welcome, for instance, AgriSA's assurance to us that it supports the Constitution's provision for national symbols and distances itself from displays of the old flag like we saw a week ago." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  