Mxolisi Mngadi A bakkie emblazoned with an anti-farm murder slogan. (James de Villiers/News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – The Madadeni High Court in KwaZulu-Natal has sentenced a 38-year-old man to two life terms in prison for the murder of two men on a farm in Swart Umfolozi. Thulani Hloniphani Sibiya was also sentenced to an additional 40 years in jail for attempted murder, armed robbery and kidnapping, police said on Thursday. The sentences were imposed just days after the "Black Monday" campaign was held to protest against attacks on farms. ALSO READ: KZN man hacked to death on a farm on #BlackMonday Sibiya pleaded guilty to the charges, police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said. The charges stemmed from an attack on the Van Rooyen family on a farm in Swart Umfolozi on April 19, last year. Ronnie Lombard, 62, and William van Rooyen were killed, while two family members sustained serious gunshot wounds. Seven suspects arrested "The Van Rooyens were attacked by a group of heavily armed males, who fired multiple gunshots at the family and robbed them of an undisclosed amount of cash," Gwala said. A case was opened at Gluckstadt police station and the docket was transferred to the Provincial Task Team for investigation. "Police investigation led to the arrest of seven suspects, who were charged, taken to court and kept in custody. Sibiya pleaded guilty on all the charges and he was sentenced to life imprisonment for each murder, 15 years for two counts of attempted murder, 15 years for armed robbery and 10 years for kidnapping," she said. ALSO READ: Farm worker arrested for allegedly killing employer Gwala added that the remaining six accused would be tried next year. "Their trial is set to resume in mid-April to mid-May 2018," she said. The remaining accused are to remain in custody.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  