Amanda Khoza Oscar Pistorius (File, Getty) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Bloemfontein – The family of Reeva Steenkamp said on Friday morning that they believed the law will run its course with the appeal against Oscar Pistorius' sentence. The family was speaking shortly after arriving at the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein where the State will argue that Pistorius' six year jail term for murdering Reeva be increased. ALSO READ: State to challenge Oscar Pistorius' jail sentence at SCA Tanya Koen, speaking on behalf of Reeva's emotional mother June said: "The family supports the State and the law must run its course – and what is happening this morning is part of that legal process. "What the family is focusing on is to continue Reeva's legacy, which is the Reeva Rebecca Steenkamp Foundation." After giving the media a very short statement, Koen said the family had nothing further to say. The family arrived at the court shortly after 08:00 on Friday. 'Disturbingly inappropriate' The State is expected to argue that six years’ imprisonment on a murder conviction is "disturbingly inappropriate" as well as "too lenient." It is also expected to submit that the sentence does not reflect the seriousness of the crime. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku told the media that while the State does not necessarily want the court to impose a 15 year jail sentence, "it wanted a reasonable sentence".  #OscarPistorius: NPA's Luvuyo Mfaku says the state will argue for the leave to appeal to be granted. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/W1e5BsLpc0  "We are going to argue for the leave to appeal to be granted. We have to argue that there are prospects of success when we argue the merits of the matter. We have always argued that murder carries a minimum of 15 years… but judges have discretion to deviate when substantial circumstances exist." Mfaku said in this case the sentence was too lenient. The world-renowned athlete was arrested on February 14, 2013, for shooting and killing Steenkamp, who he was dating. In 2014, North Gauteng High Court Judge Thokozile Masipa found Pistorius guilty of culpable homicide and sentenced him to five years in prison. In October 2015, after spending one year in prison, Pistorius was freed and was allowed to continue serving the rest of his sentence under house arrest. Later that year, the SCA overturned Masipa's judgment and convicted Pistorius of murder. Masipa later sentenced Pistorius to six years for the murder.  #OscarPistorius: Tanya Koen, speaking on behalf of the Steenkamp family says the family believes in the justice system.@TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/JxC4dxLnBU  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  