Kim Abrahams PHOTO: LinkedIn/Mauricio Ossola Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 23-year-old man wedded his 91-year-old great aunt and is
now fighting for the right to her pension following her death. Mirror.co.uk
reports that Mauricio Ossola (23) married Yolanda Torres 14 months before she
died of sepsis in April last year. But social services in his native Argentina have rejected
his application for his late wife’s pension, after neighbours told
investigators they knew nothing about the marriage. “When I began to apply for the pension I presented all the
necessary paperwork and complied with all the legal requirements,” he told
local paper, El Tribuno de Salta. “Yolanda might have been over 90 but she was extremely
lucid. But she wasn't an expert when it came to the law and she wanted to be
sure there were no legal problems with our marriage.” While their marriage might have escaped any legal furore,
Yolanda’s death has resulted in an uphill battle for Mauricio. According to Daily
Mail, the young lawyer is set to approach the highest court in the land if
need be. “If I have to go all the way to the Supreme Court, I will,
because the rejection of my petition is totally unfounded.” Mauricio – who lives in the city of Salta in north-west
Argentina – married his older bride in 2015, after moving in with her six years
earlier when his parents divorced. According to Mauricio, she promised to take care of him and
his studies following his parents’ separation. “I said to Yolanda after the separation of my parents: ‘Look
Ulita, I’m going to have to abandon my studies’. “Those were the circumstances that led to us getting
married. “Yolanda insisted I had to finish my studies.” He described the wedding as a ‘discreet civil ceremony’ and
a ‘noble and legitimate decision.’ “She was an important support in my life and us getting
married was her last wish.” “I loved Yolanda in the purest way you can love someone and
that feeling, along with the pain her loss caused me, will remain with me for
the rest of my life.” Sources: Mirror.co.uk, Independent.co.uk, Dailymail.co.uk  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  