Iavan Pijoos Estate agent Vicki Momberg (Felix Dlangamandla/Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Estate agent Vicki Momberg, who repeatedly wiped away tears during her testimony in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday, says she has apologised several times for being racist but her apologies have fallen on deaf ears. Momberg was found guilty of four counts of crimen injuria on November 3 in connection with a racist tirade she went on after she had just been robbed in a smash-and-grab in Northriding, Johannesburg, in 2016. Some of the charges related to her calling a police officer and call centre agent who were trying to assist her k****rs.   In a video clip that went viral, Momberg can be heard complaining about the "calibre of blacks" in Johannesburg. Before taking the stand during sentencing proceedings on Thursday afternoon, the court adjourned for a few minutes after Momberg broke down in tears. Her lawyer, Advocate Kevin Lawlor, said Momberg was too emotional to continue. After the adjournment, Lawlor asked Momberg during mitigation if she was remorseful about the incident. 'Humiliating and embarrassing' "There are no words to explain how I feel about the situation. I realised that it had affected people and it is not something I want to put myself and anyone else through again," she replied. Momberg said she was rejected often after apologising repeatedly. According to her, she made six or eight apologies. She has previously made apologies through her legal representative and testified in court that she had apologised to those she had offended. "It is a humiliating and embarrassing thing that I have done. I tried to apologise and I did not get an apology through to anyone. I don't know how to put it into words." Momberg claimed she had been attacked and had not received any support from anyone since the incident. She was on antidepressants and had to take anxiety tablets to cope. During cross-examination, state prosecutor Yusuf Baba argued that Momberg was not remorseful. In response, she said: "I know how it affected my life and those around me. I know how much shame it brought to my family. I know the impact it had." 'I was also a victim that night' Momberg said that the full video of the incident that took place in February 2016 was not played in court. "I watched the videos with the transcribes (sic) in my hand and everything that was in favour of the State was in the video. Some of the stuff was totally left out." ALSO READ: Black police officer’s appearance 'intimidated' me - Momberg Baba then asked if Momberg could recall being charged with crimen injuria for calling a police officer in Durban a "f**en s**t". "I don't remember that," she said. Momberg said she did not approve of the k-word. "I'm sorry to anyone that I have offended. It was not my planned action and I was also a victim that night. If that smash-and-grab incident never happened, I wouldn't have been standing here today (Thursday)." The matter was postponed to Friday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  