
        Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta has been sworn into office for a second term in front of thousands gathered in Kenya's largest stadium after a months-long election controversy. Follow the live updates 
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 has asked Kenyans to "free ourselves from past grievances". He urged people to stay within the law. "However serious our grievances may be, the law must reign supreme. The law must be the refuge for every Kenyan and none of us should break outside the law," he said. - BBC From AP: Kenya's
newly sworn-in President Uhuru Kenyatta is declaring that his inauguration
"marks the end, and I repeat the end, of our electoral process". Kenyatta has been sworn in
after an extraordinary series of events that saw the August vote nullified by
the Supreme Court — a first in Africa — and the repeat vote last month
boycotted by the opposition, which says electoral reforms are still needed. Kenyatta says the elections
"are now firmly behind us" and he praises the resilience of Kenyans
during the months of unrest.

Elsewhere in Nairobi, at
least one person has been shot dead as police block opposition supporters from
holding a memorial for the dozens of people killed in the recent unrest. From AP Kenya's
newly sworn-in President Uhuru Kenyatta is thanking voters and the country's
electoral commission after a months-long election drama. He vows to be president
for all.

Kenyatta has been sworn in
after an extraordinary series of events that saw the August vote nullified by
the Supreme Court — a first in Africa — and the repeat vote last month
boycotted by the opposition, which says electoral reforms are still needed. Kenyatta, who at first called
the Supreme Court justices "crooks" over their decision, now says
they acted "with independence". He says he listened closely
to his competitors and will endeavour to incorporate some of their ideas. A witness says one person has been shot dead as Kenyan police tried to block opposition supporters from holding a memorial for the dozens of people killed in recent months while protesting President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election. Kenyatta was being sworn in elsewhere in the capital, Nairobi, on Tuesday. Human rights groups and others say nearly 100 people have been killed since the August 8 election that was nullified by the Supreme Court following a challenge by opposition leader Raila Odinga, citing fraud.  Some of them were killed in protests seeking electoral reforms ahead of the repeat election on October 26. (AP) The Kenyan cartoonist Gado has commented on the inauguration of President Uhuru Kenyatta. He has drawn Mr Kenyatta with a crown as a reference to the opposition criticism that this is not an inauguration but a coronation. - BBC Kenyatta has just finished giving the two oaths of office. He is now at the signing table as the crowds sing, ululate and dance.  Kenyatta has been sworn in for 2nd term, ending months-long election controversy but protests continue, according to AP Raila Odinga says Uhuru swearing-in a mere coronation; there will be no conducive environment for business with Kenyan government without electoral justice. pic.twitter.com/Xt5maUOaVC As foreign and local
dignitaries poured into the 60 000-seat Kasarani stadium in Nairobi where the
ceremony is to be held, the opposition attempted to gather for a "memorial
rally" honouring the more than 50 people killed, mostly by police, in four
months of political upheaval.
 However police fired
volleys of teargas and beat opposition supporters, prompting running battles in
the area, an AFP reporter said. Meanwhile at the
Kasarani stadium chaos erupted as a crowd attempted to force its way into the
venue, prompting police to fire teargas at Kenyatta supporters who tried to
fight their way in. "I just want to
see President Uhuru Kenyatta because I voted for him, why are we being beaten
like NASA (opposition)," said Janet Wambua, who was among the angry crowd. Joseph Irungu of the
interior ministry planning committee had said there was space for 40 000 people
who did not get in to watch the event on big screens outside the stadium. However no such screens were provided, further angering the crowd.

Around 13 mostly
African heads of state are expected to attend the ceremony where Kenyatta, 56,
will be sworn in for his second and final five-year term. Kenyan police fired teargas and clashed with both ruling party and opposition supporters ahead of the swearing in as president of Uhuru Kenyatta after two disputed polls that have left the nation deeply divided. Police attempted to prevent opposition supporters from gathering for a rally in the capital, prompting running battles, an AFP reporter said, while Kenyatta supporters clashed with officers as they tried to force their way into the venue for the inauguration. - AFP 
                Jump to
                top
            