Spindog Motsamai All Spurs Star team before taking part in the under-11 group games. 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Spur 50th Anniversary Soccer Celebrations a roaring success On Sunday 26 November, Ottawa Spur in association with SuperSport United Soccer Schools hosted a youth soccer tournament for Under 9, 11 and 13 year old kids at Telkom Park in Phoenix near Milnerton. Featuring 48 teams and in excess of 500 attendees on the day, the event was a fantastic spectacle of Cape youth soccer. The competition was fierce on the day with Stephanian Ottery claiming the title at the Under 9 level, Hellenic Football Club took the under 11 title and Brooklyn Development Academy claimed the bragging rights at under 13. Brooklyn Development Academy – Under 13 Winners The tournament was organised in association with SuperSport United Soccer Schools in Cape Town. Academy director Matthew Daniel commented, “We are amazed at the raw talent on show today.  The kids are really displaying an excellent level of technical skills and an understanding of the game, but most importantly the enthusiasm on show and seeing everyone play with a smile on their faces is the best part of today.”  Laison Mwanza of Ottawa Spur, Claremont who hosted the event was equally as positive.  “We have put together a day to encourage the youngsters to come and have a great time. Soccer as a platform for being active whilst having fun is simply the best way to go and we have seen the proof in that today.” Included in the day’s schedule was an appearance by a VIP team consisting of the likes of ex-Bafana Bafana players Gerald Stober, Thando Mngomeni and Andrew Tucker as well as singing sensation Chad Saaiman.  The biggest prizes up for grabs on the day were five bursaries to attend the SuperSport United Soccer Academy for a year, worth R10 000 each.  The worthy winners were Athandiwe Pikini, Liyabona Manzenze, Rhuna Dingiswayo, Asemahle Mbekeni and Luphumlo Sifumba – all of who could not believe their luck or hide their excitement at being awarded such a great prize. The event was just one small part of the various sporting development events that Spur has put on throughout the course of the year nationally and the day made for a fantastic initiative. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  