Memory Mataranyika, Correspondent  iStock 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Zimbabwean universities advised
students to stay at home on Wednesday as the uniformed forces in the country
took over power after announcing on state broadcaster, ZTV, early on Wednesday
that they were "targeting criminals" around President Robert Mugabe.  The takeover of the state
broadcaster by the military followed a statement by President Mugabe's
Zanu-PF party on Tuesday evening saying General Constantino Chiwenga, commander
of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, had displayed "treasonous conduct". This was
after Chiwenga issued a statement on Monday criticising the sacking of Zanu-PF party
members who participated in the liberation war. On Wednesday morning, the University
of Zimbabwe said in a texted message to students that exams scheduled for today
had been deferred until further notice. This comes as the military, rolling in
tankers and heavily armed cordoned off access roads to parliament, state radio
stations and the broadcasting center among other key areas "Please note that exams that were
supposed to be written today have been deferred until further notice. I will
keep you posted on any other developments as we assess the situation on the
ground," the University of Zimbabwe told students. The Women’s University in Africa,
situated near the Support Unit para-military base, which was said to be
cordoned off, also told students not to come for lectures until the situation
had improved. Examinations at the university had not yet started. "As a result of the ongoing
political uncertainty throughout the night and in consultation with the US
Embassy and the actions of other organisations, the Women’s University in
Africa will remain closed on Wednesday, 15 November 2017 November 15 2017," the
university said. The university highlighted that as a result of
this "all students and faculty are advised to remain home" while information
regarding Thursday's lectures would be "sent as the situation is assessed". However, most schools in Harare were
open although others had reportedly texted parents to keep their children at
home. In other parts of the city, people went about their business as usual
amid a tense state of affairs. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  