Jenni Evans Carin Bester reminds us that tomorrow 16 days of activism to prevent violence against women and children starts tomorrow (Jenni Evans,News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Artist Carin Bester burst shoppers' Black Friday bubble when she staged a protest outside Media24's offices in Cape Town to raise awareness about the start of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender Violence campaign. She stood close to the headquarters of major online retailers takealot.com and Spree, dressed in a hooped petticoat, with her body painted white and holding a South African flag. "In the media you talk about Black Friday and everyone is involved with Black Friday. "But no-one talks about 16 Days of Activism, starting tomorrow [Saturday]," she said. "Thirty-nine thousand eight hundred and twenty-eight rapes are reported in South Africa. Why is that not a point of conversation?" she asked. Artist Carin Bester stands outside our office in Cape Town to say that while we get excited over #BlackFriday #16daysofactivism starts tomorrow @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/QFmnw86Efs  The figure, which was written on her chest, was for the period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017 and was revealed during the release of the police's crime statistics in October. INFOGRAPHIC: South Africa's crime stats at a glance People passing by stopped and stared at her, and some initially thought that she was a statue. Bester said planned to walk up busy St George's Mall, to spread her message. The international 16 Days of Activism campaign was started to help prevent gender-based violence and to make people more aware of their rights, how to go about reporting a crime and how to find support. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  