Gwede Mantashe (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      At the ANC
NEC meeting held over the weekend the party tried as usual to pretend that all
was fine and that the organisation was totally united.  Gwede
Mantashe made it clear to the press that all was going well with the branch
general meetings (BGMs) and that nothing, including the court cases, was going
to delay or disrupt the smooth running of the elective conference on 16-20 December.
 The NEC even
took the unprecedented step of issuing a press statement whilst the meeting was
still underway to "reject with the contempt they deserve" reports and
rumours that there was discontent amongst the ranks or an attempt to remove
Mantashe from his position as secretary general (and/or as main organiser and
controller of the elective conference).  Mantashe is
a spin master of note, but surely he must know that we are going to find all of
this hard to believe. Let's leave the story aside of attempts to remove him
aside for now – although as a friend who is very familiar with the ANC said: "As
you soon as you read 'The ANC rejects with the contempt it deserves…' you know
a lie and subterfuge are next." Let's
rather focus on the issue of branch preparedness. Mantashe was quick to
emphasise that about 60% of branches country wide have held their BGMs. He also
emphasised that branches have only a few days left to have these BGMs. With 40%
outstanding that means that more than 1500 branches still have to have BGMs
this week or else they will be excluded from the conference. It seems highly
improbable that so many branches will succeed in the next 3 days.  Of
particular concern are KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape – two of the provinces
with the highest number of delegates. In KZN less than 41% of branches had held
their BGMs by the weekend and in the Eastern Cape 56%. Both these provinces
have of course had problems with their provincial executive committee
elections, which might play a role in the low numbers. Although
the ANC constitution does not mention a quorum, the ANC will apparently go
ahead with the conference as long as 70% of the branches have held their BGMs.
However, in that scenario, it will mean that just under 1200 branches and
almost 1500 delegates (possibly more if it involves bigger branches) will be
excluded. If they are
largely from provinces that support one faction or indeed from the two biggest
provinces, one can assume that this would not be accepted. So for the
conference to go ahead, something dramatic will need to happen in/with a huge
number of these branches in the next few days.  Of course,
it would be much easier if there was not such a lot of oversight and sticking
to those pesky rules by Mantashe and his office. Not that anyone is trying to
get rid of him, of course.  The BGMs
are only the first hurdle. The NEC will still have to deal with a huge number
of disputes – thus the need for the branches to finish the BGMs by the middle
of the month. Again, it is hard to see how they can do all of this successfully
in so little time – even with NEC members deployed all over the country. If only 10%
of the total BGMs are disputed it can mean almost 400 disputes and it looks
like it will be much higher. The group who won the court case against the PEC
in KZN claims that they have filed 80 appeals with the NEC for alleged
irregularities. That is only one group in one province. The
resolution of these disputes can take time. As Mantashe acknowledged at the
press conference on Tuesday, memberships have to be verified, accounts of the
events on the night weighed up, etc. And of course, if complaints are upheld,
then branches must repeat the BGMs.  With the 16th
of December only a month away, time is rapidly running out. Which raises the
question whether the NEC will really seriously try and resolve these
complaints? Rumour has
it that by far the majority of the complaints are coming from those branches
who support Ramaphosa (as in the case of KZN mentioned earlier). If this is
indeed the case and the NEC is not able to resolve these disputes, thus leaving
matters as they are, it could impact on the outcome of the election
dramatically. The race is so tight, that if, for example, 10% is shaved off
Ramaphosa's support, he could lose. All of this
suggests that things are far less "fine" than the NEC wants us to
believe. And of course, chaos and disputes serve as a useful distraction for
those who might feel the need to manipulate the process in their favour if they
see that they might not win.  - Melanie Verwoerd is a former ANC MP and South African Ambassador to Ireland. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   