Lizeka Tandwa Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. (Brenton Geach, Gallo Images, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has invited Members of the Parliamentary Press Gallery Association (PGA) to an informal interactive "breakfast meeting", with the aim to strengthen dialogue between the executive, parliament and the media fraternity. Watch.WATCH East London – The ANC in the Eastern Cape has nominated Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed President Jacob Zuma as the next ANC president. Ramaphosa secured 423 branch nominations and his rival Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma only managed a meagre 61.  The results were announced on Thursday during the the party's provincial general council held at the East London City Hall. It was a tight contest for nominations for the deputy presidency, with ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize getting 193 nominations and Mpumalanga chairperson David Mabuza claiming 190. In Nelson Mandela Bay, 25 branches preferred Ramaphosa, compared to the eight that voted for Dlamini-Zuma.In the Joe Gqabi region, Dlamini-Zuma got the support of eight branches, while 22 voted for Ramaphosa.  In the Eastern Cape's biggest region, OR Tambo, Ramaphosa was nominated by 115 branches, with Dlamini-Zuma lagging behind with a measly 11 branches.  Embarrassment for SisuluIt however came as no surprise that Dlamini-Zuma was chosen as the Amathole region's branch nominee with 45 branches voting for her against Ramaphosa's 34. In an embarrassing result, ANC royalty Lindiwe Sisulu received just one vote from the Sarah Baartman region's branch nominations. Sisulu's father and struggle hero Walter Sisulu, who spent 25 years on Robben Island, was one of the proud products of the Eastern Cape. During the early days of Sisulu's campaign, she was said to enjoy support in the province. Reacting to the results, provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukaitobi said he did not anticipate any appeals of the results, adding that the party would go to the national conference united. "My branch, my region, my province has confirmed what they had earlier announced and we will go to the national conference united with this result," he said.   Other key nominations are:  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  