
        Triple murder accused Henri van Breda has completed his testimony and now waits to hear arguments before judgment.
      
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Judge Desai says State should be privy to Dr Butler's report. Defence says they can complete evidence in chief and matter can stand down to allow State to prepare for cross-examination. #VanBreda If defence not entitled to call Dr Butler, he will as for the court to call Dr Butler. Psychologist in light of what had happened, would first like to see Dr Butler's report as it may impact part of her evidence. #VanBreda Dr Butler was on the State's witness list. Consulted with #VanBreda before. Botha asks that matter stand down, as he wants to call Butler as an expert witness. Pertinent to the matter, relevant to 2h40m loss of memory. Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is an idiopathic generalised
epileptic syndrome characterised by myoclonic jerks, generalised tonic-clonic
seizures (GTCSs), and sometimes absence seizures. 

 
 JME is relatively common and responds well to treatment with
appropriate anticonvulsants.

 

 Other features suggestive of the diagnosis include normal
intelligence, onset around adolescence, and a family history of the condition. 

 

 GTCSs occur shortly after awakening or after precipitating
factors such as sleep deprivation, alcohol use, or psychological stress. 

 

 Patients usually require lifelong anticonvulsant therapy,
but their overall prognosis is generally good.

 

 Neurologist who treated #VanBreda wanted to speak to Adv Botha, diagnosed the accused with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. Client has for some time experienced petit mal seizures, Botha says. Botha: doctor has diagnosed Henri #vanbreda with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy Adv Botha says last Wednesday, #VanBreda contacted attorney to say he had suffered a seizure. Prelim tests done on Thursday at Constantiaberg Mediclinic. Discharged last night at 7pm. Judge Desai's notable cases:

 
 Murder trial of Najwa Petersen, who was handed a 28-year
prison sentence in 2009 for her role in the murder of her husband, music legend
Taliep Petersen.

 

 Trial of 14-year-old Valencia Farmer's killers. She was
raped and stabbed 53 times in 1999.

 

 Desai led the post mortem investigation after former South
African cricket captain Hansie Cronjé died in an airplane crash in 2002. 

 Defence and prosecution in Henri #VanBreda's triple murder trial are in chambers. Proceedings are expected to resume shortly. pic.twitter.com/KoSX2Ue86A Judge Siraj Desai is hearing the case

 

 Desai has been a judge for more than 20 years and was born
in Salt River, Cape Town.

 

 Desai was shortlisted for the position of Public Protector
which went to Busisiwe Mkhwebane

 Triple murder case back at the WC high court today. Possible psychologist testimony is up for discussion #vanbreda pic.twitter.com/EWmrg11eU1 The ties that bind: Henri van Breda and that 'Starry Night' In the almost 60 days he has been on trial for allegedly axing his 
family to death, Henri van Breda has quite often arrived at the Western 
Cape High Court wearing a tie depicting Vincent van Gogh's iconic 
painting Starry Night. Another possible defence witness expected in Van Breda trial Henri van Breda's defence team on Tuesday confirmed that it may call another expert witness to take the stand  Henri #vanbreda in court for possibly the last day of the defense’s evidence...and check the new camera!!! ???????? @TimesLIVE pic.twitter.com/xcI9nJIjft Henri van Breda accused of 'selective memory loss' The State on Monday accused Henri van Breda of having selective memory 
loss, especially with regard to incriminating evidence against him. 
                Jump to
                top
            