Emmerson Mnangagwa (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Zimbabwe War Veterans chief Christopher Mutsvangwa has warned of 'fireworks' on Saturday, as President Robert Mugabe continues to dig in his heels after the army stepped in this week in an attempt to force the veteran leader to step down. Watch. WATCH   Harare - High-level supporters of the Zimbabwe vice president whose firing led the military to step in say reports of Emmerson Mnangagwa's return to the country are false. The supporters say Mnangagwa, who is expected to lead any new government, will return to Zimbabwe only after processes to remove President Robert Mugabe are complete. They say he doesn't want his presence to be destabilising. They hope a rally on Saturday in the capital, Harare, in support of the military's move will increase pressure on Mugabe to step aside. They say that if that fails, the impeachment of Mugabe would be the next step when Parliament resumes Tuesday. The supporters spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorised to speak to the media about the matter. ___ 15:00  An official says another provincial branch of Zimbabwe's ruling party has passed a no-confidence vote in President Robert Mugabe as the world's oldest head of state struggles to remain in power. The official with knowledge of the meeting says Mashonaland East province passed the no-confidence vote. Other ruling party branches in Zimbabwe's 10 provinces are said to be following suit. Parliament is expected to resume sitting on Tuesday. It is possible that the ruling Zanu-PF party could use party procedures to impeach Mugabe with the support of opposition lawmakers. Mugabe has been under house arrest since the military moved in this week, angered by his firing of longtime deputy Emmerson Mnangagwa. Negotiations continue on his departure, though he is said to be asking for more time. ___ 14:45  At least one regional branch of Zimbabwe's ruling party has called on President Robert Mugabe to resign, and others are said to be following suit. The Manicaland provincial committee in the eastern city of Mutare has called for the resignation as other party meetings are held across the country. And the chairperson of the influential war veterans' association in Zimbabwe has just read out a note to reporters saying other ruling party branches in Midlands, Masvingo and Harare have passed no-confidence votes in Mugabe. Chris Mutsvangwa says other provinces are following suit. A Zanu-PF provincial youth league meeting in the capital, Harare, was attended by some formerly expelled members who have supported the recently fired Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa. He is expected to lead any new government. There was no sign of activity at the party's main headquarters, which is under military guard   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  