Ladysmith Black Mambazo (Photo: supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Ladysmith Black Mambazo receives two nods for the 2018 Grammy Awards; ANC Free State elective conference can't go ahead – court; and a Bosnian war criminal dies after 'taking poison' in UN court drama. Here are today's top stories: ANC Free State elective conference can't go ahead - court The Free State High Court in Bloemfontein has ordered that the provincial ANC's elective conference cannot go ahead until branch general meetings, which were declared unlawful, are rerun.  Read here. Moody's downgrades embattled Eskom Moody’s downgraded Eskom citing the state utility's liquidity woes and poor governance as the main reasons for the decision. Read more on Fin24. PICS: Zanu-PF 'to donate Mugabe, Grace regalia to orphanages' Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF will donate party regalia and posters with the image of former president Robert Mugabe and his wife Grace to orphanages, a report says.  See here. Nomination of Dlamini-Zuma in Free State was a sham - Manyoni Free State branches have threatened to go to court again if necessary, this time to nullify the provincial general council (PGC) that nominated ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to replace President Jacob Zuma. Read more here. 'Dump all those who cheered as Grace captured Mugabe,' Mnangagwa urged Zimbabwe's ex-liberation fighters are reportedly set to occupy strategic positions within the ruling Zanu-PF party to avoid power struggles that dogged the revolutionary party in recent years.  More here. Bosnian war criminal dies after 'taking poison' in UN court drama A Bosnian Croat war criminal died after apparently drinking poison in dramatic courtroom scenes after UN judges upheld his 20-year jail term, Croatian media said, throwing the tribunal into chaos during its final judgement.  Read here. What happens after December - will Zuma stay or go? While the battle of the numbers continues to rage it is perhaps important to start thinking beyond the ANC elective conference and to ask what happens next.  Read the full opinion piece here. Underworld investigation - Hawks zoom in on grenades and ammunition Hawks investigators are trying to piece together what the intended purpose was for four grenades and 3 000 rounds of ammunition, discovered at a location linked to a suspect in the murder case of international steroid smuggler Brian Wainstein. Read more here. Ladysmith Black Mambazo receive two nods at Grammys South African group Ladysmith Black Mambazo have once again done the country proud, receiving two nods for the 2018 Grammy Awards.  Channel24 has more here. AB eyes Test return with Zim warm-up AB de Villiers is set to play in a three-day warm-up game against Zimbabwe in December to get him ready for the four-day day/night Test that will take place in Port Elizabeth from Boxing Day. Read more here. Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  