Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Cyril Ramaphosa at the ANC national policy conference. (Muntu Vilakazi, Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – In case you missed it, here are some of the most popular stories from City Press on Sunday, 26 November. - See more on the City Press homepage. Ramaphosa, Dlamini-Zuma both claim ANC presidential victory  With three weeks to go to the ANC elective conference, the number-crunching from backers of both frontrunners is in full swing with each claiming victory for their side. If you believe the supporters of ANC MP and presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, she has already secured 2 911 votes ahead of the ANC’s elective conference – giving her a comfortable lead over her rival, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. If you believe Ramaphosa’s detailed data, he has 2 760 votes – also more than enough to win the race. There are three weeks to go before the elective conference gets underway, but who is really in the lead?  - READ THE LEAD STORY  Threats pile up from Eskom inquiry As the parliamentary inquiry into governance failures at the power utility heats up, allegations of threats against committee members increase. "Your mother is making our lives difficult." That was the chilling message relayed to ANC MP Zukiswa Rantho’s son this week, a day after Rantho chaired a heated session of the parliamentary inquiry into governance failures at Eskom. Rantho, who lives in Cape Town when Parliament is in session, told City Press that she received a frantic call from her 17-year-old son after a black Golf GTi accosted him, relayed the message and drove off on Thursday afternoon.  - READ THE FULL STORY  Koko 'removed tender' from agenda Suspended Eskom boss Matshela Koko allegedly manipulated events that led to a R1bn contract being awarded to Impulse International last year, a company that is linked to his stepdaughter. Koko allegedly removed Eskom subsidiary Eskom Rotek Industries’ tender submission from the agenda of a meeting, prejudicing the company. Koko is going through a disciplinary hearing at Eskom’s headquarters in Sandton.  - READ THE FULL REPORT  Makhosi launches party for change Former ANC MP Makhosi Khoza says her involvement in the formation of a new political party has nothing to do with being a disgruntled former member of the ANC. Rather, she says, establishing a new party is about taking the baton from an organisation in disarray. “We thank the ANC for its role,” she said. “It is our view that the ANC accomplished its mission. Now somebody else must take the struggle forward; the baton must be handed over. The ANC is now negating the struggle we fought for.”  - READ ALL ABOUT IT  Side Entry: No one messiah will save the Boks Rassie Erasmus has finally slipped back into the SA Rugby offices to take up his new role as Director of Rugby. It didn’t take long for the PR machine of a rugby media clearly fed up with Allister Coetzee’s half-pregnant approach to coaching the Springboks to stir into action. Erasmus’ role is supposed to be an office bound one, but there’s an obvious appetite from the rugby public for him to roll up his sleeves and be pitch side. By the looks of it many are happy to ignore the job description and see Erasmus as Coetzee’s direct replacement after an abysmal record by the latter as Bok coach – played 22 and won just 10 before Saturday's game against Italy – in what would be SA Rugby’s Christmas gift to its public.  - SEE WHAT SIMNIKIWE XABANISA HAS TO SAY  Mondli Makhanya: The liberation myth is busted In Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe, it was known that you did not talk about deep politics in a taxi or on a bus. You would also glance around and talk softly if you wanted to be critical in a bar or tavern. When you wanted to meet in a hotel foyer, you would look out for loiterers. Many even took care not to talk freely at weddings, funerals and birthday parties. The belief was that, in the taxi or bus, there would always be at least one Central Intelligence Organisation agent, that spies were eavesdropping on bar conversations and that the person loitering aimlessly in the hotel foyer or even the one checking in as a guest was a spook. It was an East Germany-type of climate of fear that made you believe that big brother was always watching or listening, and that even members of your own family were in his service.  - READ THE FULL COLUMN  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  