James de Villiers DA Chief Whip John Steenhuisen outside the Cape Town Central police station. (James de Villiers/News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – The Democratic Alliance (DA) has threatened to take legal action if the police or the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) refuse to prosecute State Security Agency (SSA) director general, Arthur Fraser. In his acclaimed book The President's Keepers, investigative journalist and author Jacques Pauw implicated Fraser in widespread corruption at the SSA between 2007 and 2009. Pauw wrote that Fraser established an alleged rogue intelligence programme, known as the Principle Agent Network (PAN), by allegedly copying the signature of then-minister of intelligence Ronnie Kasrils. He allegedly also used PAN to benefit several of his relatives. ALSO READ: SSA boss' family demands retraction from Jacques Pauw, seeks legal advice Speaking to News24 outside the Cape Town police station, DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said the opposition party would give "police the opportunity to do their job first" before exploring other legal avenues. Steenhuisen was at the police station to lay charges of corruption against Fraser and his son Lyle, his brother Barry and his mother, CF Fraser. He said: "We want to give police the opportunity to do their job first. "If it appears that they're not going to do that or the NPA doesn't want to prosecute, we will be left with no option but to seek other avenues and court is one of them." #Fraser DA chief whip @jsteenhuisen threatens to go to court if no action is taken by the NPA to prosecute SSA director Arthur Fraser. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/quIHtCaCmD "Where criminal activities occur, charges must be opened. They must be investigated and people must be prosecuted if they don’t follow through on that." News24 has seen Steenhuisen's 11-page affidavit to police. In it he referenced The President's Keepers extensively on the "presumption that the book and/or media reports are factually accurate". Steenhuisen said Fraser and his relatives contravened sections of the Prevention of Combating of Corrupt Activities Act by allegedly accepting and giving bribes and improperly influencing the awarding of contracts. ALSO READ: Principal Agent Network created to get ANC back in power in Western Cape - Pauw He told News24 that the DA was also in "possession of reports from within the State Security Agency which show that, in fact, criminal charges were recommended against Mr Fraser and others", which were never laid. Asked whether laying charges shouldn't be seen as a publicity stunt by the opposition party, Steenhuisen said this was the "mechanism the laws of South Africa prescribes for those who have done wrong". "People can obviously say that, but it is simply not the truth. We will now follow up on a monthly basis, exactly as I've done. I've submitted parliamentary questions every single month on the office of the chief justice break-in and we will continue to [do] that here." SSA spokesperson Brian Dube did not respond to a request for comment. Steenhuisen added that he believes the tide is changing against state capture in South Africa. ALSO READ: SSA makes second attempt to gag Jacques Pauw's book "I certainly think so. I think that you saw yesterday evening Mr Mantashe admitting that state capture exists," he said. "It is only President Jacob Zuma who seems to think that state capture is not an issue in South Africa and of course he would think that because he and his family have been one of the major beneficiaries of state capture," claimed Steenhuisen. #Fraser @jsteenhuisen believes the tide is changing with regards to state capture in South Africa.“You saw yesterday mister Mantashe admitting that state capture exists.” @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/P7gdJ52cDY KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  