Derrick Spies, Correspondent President Jacob Zuma (AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Port Elizabeth - President Jacob Zuma’s non-appearance at the launch of the 16 Days of Activism for no violence against women and children in Port Elizabeth was a clear sign that the people of the  Eastern Cape no longer cared for the ANC, the DA has said.  The party's Eastern Cape’s leader Nqaba Bhanga said this was also evidenced by a poor showing of attendees two hours after the event was supposed to begin at 09:00.  "The ANC is dead... South Africans are readying themselves for a future without the ANC," he said.  READ: Zuma withdraws from 16 Days of Activism launch The Presidency initially sent out an advisory on Friday saying that Zuma would launch the campaign at the Nelson Mandela University’s Missionvale campus. However, in a brief statement at around 10:30 on Saturday morning, the Presidency said Zuma would be now be represented at the launch by the Minister in the Presidency responsible for Women Susan Shabangu. The DA Eastern Cape leader said the 2016 Local Government Elections ushered in a new beginning and a new, DA-led, coalition government in Nelson Mandela Bay. Bhanga's comments follow an earlier statement from the office of mayor Athol Trollip, bemoaning the fact that the municipality had been excluded from the event. Trollip’s chief of staff, Kristoff Adelbert, said the municipality had been prevented from having meaningful participation in the proceedings.  "The president, minister in the presidency and social development MEC have to date only requested law enforcement support and access to facilities, which we gladly provided during this important programme.  "Yet it seems that information and logistics regarding the actual events, their programming and specific involvement therein have excluded the city administration," he said.  Trollip has been campaigning ahead of a motion of no-confidence against him at the next council meeting, which takes place on Thursday. READ: UDM, PA file for motion of no confidence against Athol Trollip 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  