Mugabe deputy had 'designs to seize power': state media Harare - Zimbabwean Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa was plotting to seize power, state media said Tuesday, the day after President Robert Mugabe sacked him in a bitter power struggle. Mnangagwa was the leading contender to succeed Mugabe, 93, but his abrupt removal appeared to clear the way for the president's wife Grace to take over. The government-owned Chronicle newspaperpublished an excoriating editorial accusing Mnangagwa and his supporters of being "prepared to stampede President Mugabe from power". For more on this story click here  Mnangagwa: Mugabe's sunken 'crocodile' Harare - Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was removed by Zimbabwe's leader Robert Mugabeas vice president on Monday after a bitter tussle with the first lady over succession, had waited almost four decades for his chance at the top job. Nicknamed "Ngwena" (The Crocodile) because of his fearsome power and ruthlessness against rivals, the 75-year-old had a reputation for taking no prisoners. For more on this story click here  Togo says open to talks with opposition over demos Lome - Togo's government on Monday said it was working towards talks with its political opponents after more than two months of protests calling for President Faure Gnassingbe's resignation. The first of three protests this week begins on Tuesday, stoking fears of a repeat of violence between opposition supporters, police and the military in the capital, Lome, and elsewhere. But industry and tourism minister Yaovi Attigbe Ihou said the government was "taking the necessary measures for the opening of a dialogue in Lome with all of Togo's political class". Read more on this story here  At least 10 killed in Mali, PM cancels visit Bamako - At least 10 people died in attacks in Mali on Monday, as the prime minister cancelled a visit to a central town after a vehicle sent to protect his team hit a landmine. A bus travelling in the restive north was blown up by a mine on Monday, killing at least four people, police and administrative officials told AFP. "A bus hit a mine near Ansongo," a small town about 100 kilometres (60 miles) from Gao, the regional hub, a Malian military officer in the area said. Read more on this story here  VP's sacking 'a confirmation of a serious crisis in Zanu-PF... he is free to join us', says opposition Harare – Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa is free to join the opposition after he was sacked from his position by President Robert Mugabe on Monday, opposition parties have reportedly said. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the opposition parties said that the axing of Mnangagwa from government was a confirmation of a "serious crisis within Zanu-PF party". Mugabe fired his deputy as tensions between Mnangagwa and the veteran leader's wife Grace to succeed him intensified. Read more on this story here  Cash strapped Air Zimbabwe 'running noisy aircraft', minister admits Harare – Zimbabwe's Transport and Infrastructure Minister Joram Gumbo has reportedly admitted that the country's struggling national airliner, Air Zimbabwe, is running "noisy aircraft' and that it is "ailing". According to New Zimbabwe.com, Gumbo said this while answering a question by an opposition lawmaker - in parliament - who had asked how far the company had gone with plans of a return to "servicing lucrative international routes".   The minister said that the Air Zimbabwe was "ailing and not doing very well". Read more on this story here  Petitions filed in Kenya against Kenyatta win in repeat poll Nairobi - Two petitions have been filed in Kenya's Supreme Court challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election in a repeat election which the main opposition group boycotted. Kura Yangu Sauti Yangu, Swahili for My Vote My Voice, a coalition of rights groups and civil society activist filed the petition late Monday to beat the midnight deadline to challenge the election. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  