Emmerson Mnangagwa (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabweans have reacted with mixed emotions after President Robert Mugabe fired his deputy and long-time ally Emmerson Mnangagwa on Monday. See reaction below In a statement, Information Minister Simon Khaya Moyo, said that the veteran leader relieved his deputy after "it had become evident that his conduct in the discharge of his duties had become inconsistent with his official responsibilitie". "The vice president has consistently and persistently exhibited the traits of disloyalty, disrespect, deceitfulness and unreliability." Mnangagwa was appointed vice president in 2014, taking over from Joice Mujuru - who was axed after Grace Mugabe launched a campaign accusing her of plotting to topple the president. Grace reportedly declared over the weekend that Mnangagwa should be gone from both the government and Zanu-PF before the party's extraordinary congress in December . "Trouble causers in the party must go before the next congress. He (Mnangagwa) must be dropped before we meet at congress in order for us to have unity in the party," Grace was quoted as saying. It was not immediately clearer who was going to take Mnangagwa’s post, but social media users claimed that Mugabe’s wife Grace was likely going to get the job.  Some social media users were sympathetic to the ex-vice president, while some were overjoyed as they accused him of taking part in the country's deadly Gukurahundi massacre.  If you challenge Dr Cables you're a goner! Oh #Zimbabwe your movie is almost at climax! #mnangagwa There should come a time when we all stop rationalising Bob's madness. Whatever #Mnangagwa deserves, this is no way to treat a comrade... Termination Of Employment As Vice-President #Mnangagwa #Zimbabwe ???? pic.twitter.com/BBb3M2tVnw This firing of #Mnangagwa happened too fast that Prophet Makandiwa just called Prophet Magaya to ask if he saw it coming... Yes I know we hate Grace #Mugabe but you must not feel sorry for #Mnangagwa. He was happy to kill for Mugabe during #Gukurahundi Massacres. Listen to the passion in which #Mnangagwa spoke about his 'fallen' fellow comrades...Will he maintain the same passion now that he himself has been fired?#Zimbabwepic.twitter.com/6RbfWx4oWP Anyone know if it’s crocodile tears or ice cream flowing? #Mnangagwa VP #Mnangagwa firing also seen as possible opening in leadership struggle for Grace Mugabe 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  