Yolandi Groenewald and Adriaan Basson NPA 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has confirmed it is "finalising" a decision on whether to prosecute Bosasa executives and former civil servants for corruption at the Department of Correctional Services. NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku told News24 that a new team of detectives was assigned to the case and was working closely with the prosecutors. "The prosecutors are in the process of finalising their decision in respect of the case," Mfaku said. News24 revealed on Tuesday that Bosasa had sponsored President Jacob Zuma's 2014 and 2015 birthday parties in Durban through the Jacob Zuma Foundation, which is led by former SAA chair Dudu Myeni. READ EXCLUSIVE: 'Corrupt' company sponsored Zuma's birthday parties The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) found in 2009 that Bosasa, led by CEO Gavin Watson, bribed senior correctional services officials, including then prisons boss Linda Mti and chief financial officer Patrick Gillingham, to obtain tenders worth over R1bn from the department. Investigation The company provided catering and security services to the country's prisons. In 2009, the SIU report was handed to the NPA, which referred the case back to the Hawks for further investigation. Early in 2016, the prosecutor working on the docket was removed "in the interest of the case" and replaced with a new team of advocates. "The NPA has assigned a team of prosecutors who have worked on this matter and made significant progress with the investigating officers over a short period of time," said Mfaku. Eight years after the case was first handed to the NPA, Mfaku wouldn't be drawn on providing a timeline for a final decision whether to prosecute or not. "The NPA is satisfied with the work of the two prosecutors and the investigators in this matter who under very difficult circumstances took over the case which has languished over a protracted time in the care of others. "The NPA is confident that the team has discharged its obligations in a fair and reasonable manner and will decide the matter based on fact, law and in the interests of justice," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  