Mxolisi Mngadi Njabulo Mankayi, 10, who was reported missing and later found dead in Durban. (Facebook) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – Amahle Maliwa, 28, smiled as she left the dock after her case of murder and kidnapping was postponed at the Durban Magistrate's Court on Monday. Maliwa is one of three people accused of poisoning and strangling to death two 10-year-old boys, two weeks ago in Clairwood, south of Durban. Maliwa, Liziwe Ngwayishe, 33, and Ali Yusaf, 46, have been charged with two counts of murder, kidnapping and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Second missing Durban boy found dead Her smile didn't impress the family of one of the slain boys, and the members of the community who packed the court's public gallery. Precious Phuthaza, the grandmother of one of the slain boys, Njabulo Mankayi, lashed out saying how could Maliwa smile when she has been accused of such a terrible crime. Mankayi's decomposed body was found on Monday, November 13, in the Grunter Gully Canal in Bayhead, south of Durban, while his friend Luyanda Msomi was found in a bush in Montclair, Durban, on Saturday, November 11. 'Our son had a bright future' Mankayi and Msomi – both Grade 3 pupils at Clairwood Boys Primary School – were last seen on Thursday, November 9, while boarding a bus home from school, before they were found dead. Phuthaza said she wished that Maliwa gets convicted and sentenced to 10 life imprisonment terms for allegedly killing her grandson. "Our son had a bright future ahead of him. He was only 10 years old," she said. ALSO READ: Police search for missing boy, 10, after friend's body is found Mankayi's father Thandaza Mankayi said even though his son was buried on Sunday, he was still hurt. "I don't even want to speak or look at Amahle," he said outside court, when asked whether he would like to speak to Maliwa. Mankayi told News24 last week that he was in a romantic relationship with Maliwa. He said he suspected that the boys were killed because he had ended his relationship with Maliwa on October 14. Postponed for further investigation Inside court, Maliwa told Magistrate Mohammed Motala that she failed to get the services of a private attorney. "I lost the attorney's number, I was not able to contact the attorney," she said. During her first court appearance last week, she said she would be represented by her own attorney. "I'll now apply for a legal aid board lawyer," said the softly-spoken Maliwa. Ngwayishe and Yusaf, a traditional healer, abandoned their bail application. The State asked the court to postpone the matter for further investigation. Motala postponed the matter to January 26. All three of the accused were remanded into custody.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  