The upgrade of the Kruisfontein Waste Water Treatment Works is nearing completion. Photo:SUPPLIED Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories THE 85-million upgrade of the Kruisfontein waste water treatment works at Humansdorp is nearing completion. Kouga Mayor Elza van Lingen said the practical completion date for the upgrade was set for 15 December 2017. “Thanks to the upgrade, the plant will now be able to handle up to 4Ml of sewerage per day. This is sufficient to cater for the existing needs of the Kruisfontein community and will also enable government to build further RDP houses in the area,” she said. Meanwhile, work has been progressing well on the 391 RDP houses currently being built at Kruisfontein. It is anticipated that at least 200 of the houses will be completed by December. Rioolwerke maak pad oop vir nog huise DIE R85-miljoen opgradering van Kruisfontein se rioolwerke nader voltooiing. Volgens Kouga-burgemeester Elza van Lingen, is alles goed op dreef en verwag die munisipaliteit dat die werk teen15 Desember voltooi sal wees. “Die opgradering was nodig om die kapasiteit van die rioolwerke te vermeerder. Die aanleg sal nou tot 4Ml riool per dag kan hanteer, wat ons in staat sal stel om nog Hop-huise in Kruisfontein te kan bou.” Die bou van 391 Hop-huise in Kruisfontein vorder ook goed, het sy gesê. Daar word verwag dat ten minste 200 van die huise teen Desember klaargebou sal wees. Idama lelindle livule amathuba okwakhiwa kwezinye izindlu UKUPHUCULWA kwedama lelindle laseKruisfontein ngemali eyi-R85 million eHumansdorp kusondela ekuphethweni. USodolophu waseKouga uElza van Lingen uthe usuku ebelumiselwe ukugqitywa ngawo lo msebenzi yi-15 kaDecember 2017. “Ngenxa yalo msebenzi, eli dama lizakukwazi ukuthwala umthamo wesine seemegalitha zelindle ngosuku. Oku kulungele izidingo zangoku zabahlali baseKruisfontein, kwaye kukwalungiselela nokuba urhulumente akwazi ukwakha ezinye izindlu kule ngingqi,” utshilo. Kusenjalo, umsebenzi usaqhuba kakuhle ekwakhiweni kwezindlu zezibonelelo ezingama-391 nezakhiwayo ngoku eKruisfontein. Kulindeleke, ubuncinane, ama-200 ezindlu zibe zigqityiwe ngoDecember. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  