Three men, one woman held for 'booing' Grace Mugabe Harare – Three men and a woman have been taken to court for allegedly booing Zimbabwean First Lady Grace Mugabe at a Zanu-PF presidential youth interface rally held in Bulawayo last Saturday, state media reports. The first couple were outraged when Grace was booed as she addressed the rally that was attended by thousands of people. This was blamed on ex-president Emmerson Mnangagwa bussing in his supporters. Grace led exactly the same charge against a vice president in 2014, when she got Joice Mujuru fired. The state-owned Chronicle newspaper, reported on Friday that Mabutho Lucky Moyo (32) of Lobengula, Mayibongwe Evans Zvigadza (28) of Barbourfields, Walter Sibanda (24) of Tshabalala and Dephine Dzvange (33) of Nketa 7 faced a charge of undermining the authority of the president. Read more on this story here  Sacked Zim VP Mnangagwa in China? Harare – Former Zimbabwean vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly arrived in China following his dismissal from his post by President Robert Mugabe on Monday. A report by New Zimbabwe.com quoted a military source as saying that Mnangagwa's journey was made possible by the country's faction riddled war veterans head Chris Mutsvangwa. Mutsvangwa himself was the former ambassador to China. "He (Mnangagwa is now in China. War veterans chairperson Christopher Mutsvangwa facilitated the journey," the military source was quoted as saying. Read more on this story here  Moroccan teachers demand better protection from violence Marrakech - Moroccan teachers are protesting violence in schools and have urged the government to better protect them in a two-day nationwide strike. The strike was launched by several teacher unions on Wednesday and Thursday. Mohamed Boutkhsain of the National Union of Education said between 70 to 80 percent of its members took part. The Education Ministry said it did not yet have a definitive participation rate. Read more on this story here  US kills 'several militants' in Somalia air strike Washington - The US military announced Thursday it had killed "several militants" in an airstrike against Al-Shabaab jihadists in Somalia. The attack took place early Thursday in the Bay region in the center of the country, about 160km west of Mogadishu. The strike was carried out "in coordination with the Federal Government of Somalia," the US Africa Command said in a statement. "Al-Shabaab has pledged allegiance to al-Qaeda and is dedicated to providing safe haven for terrorist attacks throughout the world," it said. For more on this story click here  What Mugabe is doing is 'Satanic and devilish', students leader claims Harare – A Zimbabwean students leader, Zvikomborero Haruzivishe, has compared President Robert Mugabe to "Satan" over the recently launched campaign to clear Harare’s streets of illegal vendors, says a report. According to New Zimbabwe.com, Haruzivishe, who is the general secretary for the Zimbabwe National Student Union (Zinasu), said that the way Mugabe and his government were treating street traders was "devilish" as the vendors were "victims of the government's failure to create jobs for the majority of the country's citizens".  Haruzivishe said that most students at the country’s tertiary institutions depended on the income that their parents were making from selling their wares on the streets for survival. For more on this story click here 'Fluid, unpredictable – but Mugabe stays in power': What happens next in Zimbabwe? Harare - It's been an incredible week in Zimbabwe. A man once thought to be untouchable – former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa – has been sacked and expelled from the ruling party and has fled into exile. What does that mean for ordinary Zimbabweans? Mugabe’s grip tightened or more factions? When former vice president Joice Mujuru was expelled from Zanu-PF three years ago, it was thought that a major threat to Mugabe’s hold on power had been dealt with once and for all. But two more factions were ready and waiting to vie for the top job – one led by Mujuru’s successor, Emmerson Mnangagwa and another aligned to First Lady Grace Mugabe, the G40 faction. For more on this story click here Nigerian court seizes sacked spy chief's 'cash flat' Lagos - A Nigerian judge on Thursday ordered the seizure of a flat linked to the former head of the country's National Intelligence Agency, after more than $43 million in cash was found during an anti-corruption raid. Judge Saliu Seidu, sitting at the Federal High Court in Lagos, said the apartment in the upmarket Ikoyi area of the city should be temporarily forfeited to the government, pending any challenge within 14 days. Acting on a tip-off, agents from Economic and Financial Crimes Commission raided the property on April 12 this year and discovered just under $43.5 million. For more on this story click here       24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  