Correspondent   The newly renamed Robert Gabriel Mugabe International Airport in Harare. (AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - President Robert Mugabe on Thursday unveiled a plaque to
commemorate the renaming of Harare International Airport after himself. The change of name was an "honour", the 93-year-old president
said, after he drew open some gold curtains covering the commemorative plaque
to the flourish of music from a police brass band.  "May I on behalf of government, the people of Zimbabwe and
my own behalf, thank most sincerely the ministry of transport for the honour
bestowed in me by renaming the Harare International Airport to Robert Mugabe
International Airport," he said, in quotes carried by the state-run Herald
online. Mugabe already has streets in major towns and cities named
after him. There is also a push to build a new billion-dollar Robert Gabriel
Mugabe University north of Harare, and to rename the giant Tokwe Mukosi dam in
Masvingo after the long-time president. Analysts say the push to rename major landmarks and
institutions after the president comes from the G40 faction within his ruling
party, which they say is trying to gain his favour. The faction's hand was
strengthened after their main rival, Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa was this
week sacked and expelled from the party and dozens of his allies suspended. The main opposition Movement for Democratic Change has
criticised the renaming of Harare International Airport after Mugabe "as if
he's the only person worthy of recognition". "We condemn that and the capture of the state by the Mugabe
government," spokesperson Obert Gutu told News24 in an interview ahead of
Thursday's ceremony, adding that the MDC will reverse the name change if it
comes to power in 2018 elections. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  