Mandla Mahashe  Barely a day into the launch of the 16 Days of Activism Campaign for no violence against Women and Children, a New Crossroads family is reeling after the loss of their hard-working daughter to gunshots that claimed her life. Unathi Sabsana,28, the owner of Unathi Take-Aways in Abonwabisi street was shot and killed on Sunday evening as she was arriving home. According to her parents, the mother of one had had a shaky relationship with a boyfriend of three years. Police are on the hunt for the man. On Saturday, South Africa launched the campaign amid much fanfare. Then on Sunday evening, a gun claimed Unathi’s life.  According to Unathi’s mother Mildred,59, the man allegedly ambushed their daughter as she was entering her home. “We were inside the house when we heard two gun shots just outside ... Then we saw our daughter running inside the house and fall on the passage.  A few seconds later, the man entered the house in hot pursuit and fired shots into her head. Mildred said the man then casually walked into his car and drove away. The family then rushed Unathi to hospital. “When we arrived at the KTC Hospital, she was pronounced dead on arrival. It is a painful loss to us as a family, because she worked hard to take care of us,” she said. Mildred said that they always feared that this would happen as the couple had a rocky relationship.  “Unathi ran her take away business from our home and everyone knew her. She would speak with her customers often and this would infuriate her boyfriend who suspected her of cheating,”  Unathi was killed just a few days before she and her boyfriend were to appear in court regarding a case of intimidation she had laid against him. Unathi’s father Dumalisile,67, said: “She had made a court order against the man but he continued to drive around the house and one time he punctured her car tyres while she was in a meeting in observatory.” According to the parents, Unathi leaves behind a 10 year old son who also lost his father through suicide.  “Her son has been hit the hardest by this because he really loved her mother and he shook her as she was lying in a pool of blood.” Mildred said that they have not been offered counselling by the police and they hadn’t met with the investigating officer when City Vision reporters visited their home.  “This is not a loss for just as a family but her customers as well as her employees. She hired three women in her take-away but we will open shop soon,” said Mildred.  Meanwhile, police have launched a man- hunt for the man suspected to be the killer.  “We can confirm that a shooting took place in Abonwabisi Street. A police vehicle was dispatched and was approached by a driver who told them the victim had been taken to the hospital. At the hospital, the members were told that the victim had passed away,” said Gugulethu police spokesperson Constable Sindisiwe Ngqele. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  