Nombulelo Damba-Hendrik    Patients register in a tent at the Newlands clinic near Mdantsane. (Nombulelo Damba-Hendrik, GroundUp)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     East London – Close to eight villages in Nxarhuni outside Mdantsane in East London depend on Newlands Clinic. But the clinic has only one doctor who comes in twice a month, according to a GroundUp report. A clinic committee member who did not want to be named said: "The doctor comes on the first Monday of the month, then skips a week and comes again on [the next] Monday." Community members complained to GroundUp about regular shortages of staff and a lack of medication. Patients are registered in a tent. Those who use the clinic's services say the tent is not rain-proof and that depending on the weather it can be very hot or very cold inside. Before they had the tent, they had to queue outside. Absenteeism GroundUp visited Newlands Clinic to check on the service. The first time was November 1. It was a hot day and patients were waiting inside the tent. The clinic manager, a Mr Matshangane, informed them that only one nurse was working that day as two nurses were absent. He said the nurses had not informed him in advance that they would not be coming to work. A patient, who only identified himself as Duna, told GroundUp that he arrived at the clinic before 07:00. He lives 5km away. He said the clinic opened at 08:00 and clinic staff started seeing people at 09:00. It was already 11:00 and the queue was moving very slowly. Duna was panicking because he needed to fetch his grant money. "I'm here to take my treatment. I'm not going to see a nurse; I just need to take my treatment. But I have to wait for more than four hours," said Duna. He said if he left without taking the scheduled treatment, the nurses were going to ignore him the next day or serve him last. No electricity, no water Another patient, who did not wish to give her name, said the service at the clinic has been slow for a long time. She said the problem was that the nurses start work late and stop working at 16:30. "I always know that I will spend the whole day [here] because of shortage of staff. It's rare to find all nurses and doctor on the same day," she said. GroundUp visited a week later on November 7. It was windy and unbearably cold inside the tent. Once again the manager said there was a shortage of staff. There was also no electricity and or water on that day. Patients had to use pit toilets to relieve themselves. Request for another clinic Matshangane said he had a meeting and would not be able to see patients as he usually did when there was a shortage of staff. Aseza Mali said the clinic was small, but it was centrally located. "People from Cuba, Eluxolweni, New Bright, Chris Hani, Newlands and other areas come here and yet there's always shortage of staff. This clinic helps a lot of communities, but we only get a doctor twice a month. On other days, if you want to see a doctor you have to go to [Cecilia] Makiwane Hospital in Mdantsane and you must have transport money," she said. She said the community had raised the issue with the municipality and asked for another clinic to be built. The Eastern Cape department of health and the Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality did not respond to GroundUp. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  