
        A cellphone conversation between Jason and Susan Rohde shows threatening messages exhanged between the couple the day before her body was found in the Spier hotel room. 
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Today Warrant Officer Anna-Marie van Niekerk from Worcester police will testify in #Rohde trial @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/JNUMzTPXrm Jason #Rohde ahead of the resumption of his trial on charge of murder of his wife Susan on July 24, 2016. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/cHjVH18NwL Rohde trial is adjourned to Tuesday for a psychologist to testify @TeamNews24 Later the evening, at 19:22:09, Jason sent a message to Susan which read: I'm sorry about tonight", to which Susan replies "Come and fetch me". Jason continues in saying "I can't leave her I'm waiting outside for you. "Susan replies: "Duck you [sic] At 12:00:08 Jason: "What the duck are you calling me for!!!!" Susan: "thought it was finished" Jason: "We are finished" Susan: "Threaten me once more Jason!!!!!!!!" Jason: "You made that choice" At 11:34:11: Susan: "Why is she a contact" Jason: "Because if I call her it will come up on seri your idiot!!![sic]. Now leave, I had enough. On my work day you are doing this to me. I want you now now and I don't care about the consequences." Susan: "Take it off" Jason: I'm in the conference!!!!" At 11:03:18 Jason: "Oh for fuck sakes I'm sitting in a conference with 150 people watching me!!!!" Susan: "You are going to die today and so is she!!!!!!!!" Susan: "Change those fucking numbers on your phone that are blocked to normal numbers now and not letters." Jason: "What is your problem!!!!" Susan: "You are a [devious] fucking bastard!!!!!" Jason: "U can now pack your bag and leave." Messages between Susan and Jason Rohde the day before she died (July 23, 2016) have been presented in court. The messages reveal an argument between the Rohdes concerning Jolene Alterskye. We are back for #Rohde case after hearing vicious messages between Susan, Jason Rohde and his gf Jolene Alterskye @TeamNews24 Just checked with prosecutor, got go-ahead to write on content of calls, messages between Jason, Susan #Rohde, his lover Jolene @TeamNews24 Adjournment now in #Rohde @TeamNews24 Now getting to content of whatsapps. Pros does not want some content published coz explicit and concerned re children @TeamNews24 Van Niekerk testifying on series of calls between Jason #Rohde and Jolene Alterskye. Not all answered. @TeamNews24 Van Niekerk says tried to establish a timeline and comms between Susan, Jason #Rohde and his gf  Jolene Alterskye. @TeamNews24 ICYMI: Previously, the court has heard about WhatsApp chat messages sent between handsets belonging to Susan Rohde and her husband's mistress in the hours leading up to her death. This was evidence presented by data expert Warrant Officer Mias Engelbrecht.  Van Niekerk has over 20 years experience, dissertation on analysing cell records for use as intel. @TeamNews24 #Rohde trial starts. W/O Van Niekerk is sworn in. @TeamNews24 The #Rohde trial is running a little late due to power issues and a court room change @TeamNews24 Rohde's wife's family prejudged and ostracised him, court hears Murder accused Jason Rohde claims that his wife's family ostracised and prejudged him long before he became an accused in her murder, the Western Cape High Court heard on Thursday. So bad was the situation that Rohde didn't even stay for tea at her funeral, the court heard. "My client was treated by your wife, by his father-in-law as if he was a murderer. He was ostracised, he was victimised and he was prejudged before his day in court," advocate Pete Mihalik put to Rohde's brother-in-law, Peter Norton. Norton, who was testifying in Rohde’s trial, said he thought "there was compassion mixed with suspicion". 
                Jump to
                top
            