Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe. (Jekesai Njikizana/AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Political tension has reached boiling point in Zimbabwe with the military usurping power from President Robert Mugabe to crack down on corrupt leaders.  Here is a list of our top headlines:  Zuma deploys special envoy to Zimbabwe, denounces unconstitutional takeover President Zuma, who says he spoke to Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, has deployed a special envoy to that country amid military intervention described by analysts as a coup. Full story EFF: South Africa must offer Mugabe political asylum The EFF has thrown its weight behind the military in troubled Zimbabwe by calling for a peaceful transition of power and for South Africa to offer President Robert Mugabe political asylum. Luthando Vikilahle filed this report Mnangagwa: Zimbabwe's leader in waiting? Emmerson Mnangagwa appears well-placed to return to a leading role in Zimbabwe following the army's takeover in response to President Robert Mugabe's sacking of the former vice president. More                                           Emmerson Mnangagwa. (Jekesai Njikizana/AFP) 18 of Robert Mugabe's most famous quotes Here is a quick look at Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's colourful language - from homosexuality and Britain, to Barack Obama and Donald Trump. Have a look at the list TIMELINE: From VP sacking to Mugabe house arrestHere is a timeline of the recent crisis in Zimbabwe, which has seen the military take control of the country with President Robert Mugabe saying he is under house arrest. Check it outZimbabwe war vets group wants Mugabe recalled The head of Zimbabwe's influential war veterans association says they stand with the army and that President Robert Mugabe should be recalled as president and ruling party leader. Read The top 6 players in #Zimbabwe right now pic.twitter.com/36IOS79OaC Life carries on as normal in Zimbabwe – citizens Life for most of citizens in Harare appears to be carrying on normally, despite a heavy military presence and President Robert Mugabe's "house arrest". More This 'implosion' is good for the people of Zimbabwe - residentsResidents in Harare and Chinhoyi share their views on the suspected military coup currently taking place in Zimbabwe against President Robert Mugabe. Watch   Zimbabwe crisis: EU urges 'peaceful' resolution The EU has called for a "peaceful resolution" to the crisis in Zimbabwe, following military intervention which saw President Robert Mugabe placed under house arrest. Read 'Peace and love over everything' - Robert Mugabe Jr Amidst heightened tensions in Zimbabwe, President Robert Mugabe's son, Robert Mugabe Jr, has posted an archive video of his father denouncing military takeover. Click here for more Mugabe's party accuses army chief of 'treasonable conduct' Zimbabwe's ruling party has accused the army chief of "treasonable conduct" after he challenged President Robert Mugabe over the sacking of the vice president, in the latest sign of worsening instability in the country. Read  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  