
        Court has been adjourned in the case of triple murder accused Henri van Breda, who is testifying in his defence in the Western Cape High Court. Get all the details here. 
      - For the latest updates, follow News24 reporter Tammy Petersen: @TammyPetersen87  WATCH LIVE: Van Breda Trial - Day 55  
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Henri van Breda takes a final sip of water in the dock before making his way out as court is adjourned.  Henri van Breda demonstrates axe attack from stand State prosecutor Susan Galloway on Wednesday asked triple murder accused Henri van Breda to demonstrate certain aspects of the axe attack.  Henri van Breda turns his head to respond to Judge Desai after he follows on from another question by Advocate Galloway.   Court adjourns for the lunch break.   Galloway asks what exactly about the attacker's voice Van Breda would recognise.  Van Breda: "I still hear the voices and giggling in my nightmares..."   Galloway and Judge Desai quiz Van Breda on how he could determine the attacker's race if he could only see the eyes through the balaclava the attacker was wearing.   Galloway: "No one would be able to identify the attacker, based on your description, do you agree with that?"  Van Breda: "I agree, it wasn't a lot to go on."   Galloway to Van Breda: "So it's not like you're a sickly, smaller built person..."   Galloway questions why the attacker ignored Henri van Breda and attacked the rest of his family.   Galloway pointing out inconsistencies in Van Breda's statement, and court testimony.   Galloway asks if the attacker laughed while attacking his brother and father. "Yes," Van Breda replies.   #VanBreda says yes. He doesn't recall attacker looking over at him to see who was behind him. Galloway questions why the attacker left Henri behind in the room and went for the female voice to carry on the attack.   Galloway says #VanBreda has a deep voice. Screamed loud enough to attract father's attention, but he ignores you and go toward female voice? Attack on Martin stopped when attacker heard his mother shout, #VanBreda he says. #VanBreda says he was still in the corner of the room as this happened. He presumes attacker was aware of his presence. Henri van Breda demonstrates certain aspects of the axe attack in court.   Martin laid on bed when attacker struck down repeatedly, #VanBreda says. Galloway says from above head and straight down. Body at an angle. #VanBreda demonstrates Martin came in room, attacker took step to left towards him, across each other. Father was on bed. #VanBreda says he saw his father get hit with axe. Pauses. Judge Desai allows him to take a sip of water. #VanBreda says he didn't see where first blow landed. Did he miss? No, after first strike Martin fell down, he maintains. Wounds on Martin's body - top of shoulders and at neck- are all parallel to shoulder line. #VanBreda 
                Jump to
                top
            