Lizeka Tandwa  Jacques Pauw. (News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Investigative journalist Jacques Pauw stands by the allegations contained in his recently-released book and joins fellow investigative journalist and author Pieter-Loius Myburgh in studio for a live discussion on The President's Keepers.WATCH Johannesburg - The State Security Agency has sent yet another cease and desist letter to get The Presidents Keepers withdrawn from bookshelves, but this time the letter was sent to its title editor Russel Martin. Author and veteran journalist Jacques Pauw announced during the official launch of his book that the SSA's cease and desist letter gave him two days to withdraw the book or he could face being taken to court.  READ: Jacques Pauw's #ThePresidentsKeepers launch interrupted by power cut "I'm not trying to make a joke out of this. I might have to spend the next few years in court. There is a still going to be big action from law enforcement agencies... The legal reaction in the moment shows a complete idiocy in the law enforcement agency at the moment," he said.   "The tide has started and nothing is going to stop it," Pauw said.  His lawyer Willem De Klerk confirmed to News24 that Martin had received the “threatening” letter. "It was a demand exactly like the previous one but addressed to Martin. It was completely misplaced. He merely edited the book. He had no part in writing the book or the decision making." 'Threatening letter' De Klerk said the recent action by the SSA would not deter Pauw or the publishers from NB Publishers from distributing the book.He said he wrote back to the SSA explaining Martin's role in the book.The SSA first sent a cease and desist letter to Pauw last week demanding that he withdraw his book in two days. "That lapsed on Monday and they sent another threatening letter," Pauw said during the launch.Pauw's book exposes how millions of rand of taxpayers' money flowed into the bank accounts of bogus spies, along with other revelations about President Jacob Zuma’s compromised government. WATCH: 'We are just about a gangster state' - Jacques Pauw speaks about sizzling The President's Keepers revelations   The cease and desist letters follows a statement released by SARS on Friday morning indicating that it was seeking legal advice on what steps to take, which could include, but not be limited to, criminal and civil investigations against Pauw into the circumstances pertaining to the unlawful disclosure of confidential taxpayer information.Pauw's book was released last week, but Exclusive Books said they have already had to more than triple their print order. The book was sold out two days after it was released last Sunday.   Exclusive books CEO Benjamin Trisk thanked the SSA for being "the best marketing team" for the book, adding that sales from the book were one of its biggest in the history in the first week.  #ThePresidentsKeepers Pauw: Says tax payers money is going to factions within the @MYANC for the December conference @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/IDi7y3YzGb #ThePresidentsKeepers Pauw says people want to hear the truth @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/Rm7Jwf0QZr #ThePresidentsKeepers as Pauw tried to eleborate on tax payer monies abuse by @MYANC the lights go out @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/yqLBToseg8 KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  