News24 reporter The chairperson of the Zimbabwean liberation movement Christopher Mutsvangwa at a media briefing held in Harare. 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – A senior Zimbabwean war veteran has given President Robert Mugabe an ultimatum that he must resign by Saturday."Between now and tomorrow (on Saturday), we are giving a very strong warning to Mugabe and his wife… He won’t be allowed to continue," said Christopher Mutsvangwa, the chairperson of the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans’ Association.Mutsvangwa was speaking at a press conference in Harare on Friday afternoon after a tense week in the capital, with calls for Mugabe, who has been president for nearly 40 years, to step down. No going back Mutsvangwa said that the war veterans were behind the army and supported the calls for Mugabe to step down."There is no going back about Mugabe. Period. We have declared, and there is no going back. He must leave [and] the population must come support us tomorrow (on Saturday)," he said.He said the war veterans were calling on all Zimbabweans to show support at a planned rally on Saturday, where they would call for Mugabe to step down. READ:  'If Mugabe becomes stubborn, we'll arrange for him to be fired Sunday,' says Zanu-PF official Watch here:   He said the veterans has been very impressed by the work of the military, who this week occupied strategic parts of the centre of Harare and stationed soldiers and armoured personnel carriers outside governmental buildings, including the Presidential Offices. Mutsvangwa said he supported the statement by the military that they were performing a "military correction" and not a coup. "We are on the same page as the Zimbabwean population, which has suffered 15 to 20 years of abject poverty," he said. READ:  #Zimbabwe: 'We want someone who can make this country prosper again' Mutsvangwa said Mugabe had until Saturday to make a decision, warning the president that the war veterans and the military had more support than he thought. Despite calling for Mugabe to resign, Mutsvangwa said the veterans still believed in democracy. "The vote is central to our efforts as war veterans. Democracy is central. We fought for democracy. The war veterans of Zimbabwe are behind the constitution of Zimbabwe. We just want to get rid of these thieves," he said. He called First Lady Grace Mugabe "mad" for assuming that she would be become the next president of the country.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  