YOU Digital PHOTO: Getty/Gallo Images 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     As the festive season nears many South Africans will be
taking it easy during their well-deserved holiday, but a small portion of the
population will be working twice as hard – financial scammers. This is because bank users tend to become less cautious when
using ATMs.  Congested and noisy shopping centres in popular holiday
towns are known to be the perfect locations for these criminals to commit their
crimes and then disappear. Earlier this year, The
South African Banking Risk Information Centre (SABRIC), released its card
fraud statistics for 2016, which reflects an overall increase in card fraud for
2016.  According to the report credit and debit card fraud was
costing South Africa more than R600 million a year. Even though the festive season is a time to be jolly and
carefree, shoppers need to be extra vigilant when it comes to their money. CEO of FNB Points of Presence Lee-Anne van Zyl says there are
key safety precautions one must take to avoid being a victim of ATM scamming.  Here are a couple of
tips to help you stay safe and enjoy the festive season: 1.      
Always keep your ATM PIN confidential. Don’t
share with anyone, not even friends and family. Also, don’t write it down!    2.      
Make sure your pin combination is not easy to
guess – stay away from birth dates and addresses.     3.      
When using the ATM, cover the key pad with your
hand. Sometimes scammers place cameras to record your PIN as you punch it in.   4.      
Stand as close as possible to the ATM and never
let anyone stand close to you while using the ATM or distract you whilst
transacting.   5.      
Carefully read the instruction on the ATM screen
before entering your PIN.   6.      
Once you have withdrawn your money, immediately
place it out of sight.    7.      
Try to also avoid handling cash in public view
and secure your wallet and handbag before leaving the ATM.   8.      
 Set a
realistic daily limit to protect yourself, in the case where your details are
compromised.     9.      
And make sure to check your statements regularly
and report suspicious transactions immediately.    10.  
Be wary of strangers that may call you back to
the ATM to complete a transaction. They often ask for assistance or offer to
assist you. Once           you have completed your transaction, leave as soon as possible
and avoid conversation with strangers.    11.  
If you are disturbed whilst transacting at the
ATM, your card may be skimmed. This is done by it being removed and replaced
back into the ATM without your knowledge. In that case, cancel the transaction
immediately. Some things to
remember:  1.       Never
ask for help from strangers, even the security guard – if you are unsure, visit
a nearby branch for assistance.   2.        Never force your card into the ATM – if the
card is not easily accepted by the device, it may have been tampered with by
criminals           and never use an ATM if it looks faulty or show evidence of
tampering.   3.        Pay attention to your surroundings and be
alert - look out for loiterers. If you suspect that your card has been stolen or may be lost,
cancel it immediately. It will be blocked or cancelled, which prevents it from
being used by anyone without your consent.  This doesn’t mean that you bank account will not be
closed!  You will still be able to access
your account. You can reorder your cancelled card at the ATM.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  