Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party fired President Robert Mugabe as party leader and appointed vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa in his place. Watch party members celebrate after the decision. China, US knew of Zim coup The coup that led to the ouster of Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe was supposed to be executed in December, ahead of the Zanu-PF special congress, but had to be brought forward when vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa was axed.City Press has learnt that the military, political players and diplomats had been hatching the plan for some time in order to prevent the ascendancy at the congress of the G40 faction of Zanu-PF. Its figurehead is First Lady Grace Mugabe. Several governments in the region and abroad had been made aware of the plan and had no objection. They insisted that there be no bloodshed and that the overthrow should not be characterised as a coup. Sources told City Press that a senior Zimbabwean diplomat “sensitised” regional governments “to the idea and necessity of the coup” and “received assurances that there would be no military intervention”. Read more. Gupta TV to be 'axed' The Gupta-founded news channel ANN7 will no longer be broadcast on DStv when its contract expires in June next year.That’s according to an impeccably placed source in the news broadcast industry who does not wish to be named.Their account was supported by a second source, who also did not want to be named and who would not comment further, but confirmed various meetings where pay TV market leader MultiChoice and various advisers decided that they would not be renewing the contract of ANN7 when it expires in June next year.The decision is said to be driven, in part, by concerns over the reputational damage the Gupta-founded news channel is causing the MultiChoice brand. Read more. Brian Molefe joins the army The beleaguered Brian Molefe has managed to progress from alleged Gupta lieutenant to a highly paid military colonel. It has only been a few months and Molefe has been called up to serve as a colonel in the army at R57 000 a month. Molefe started in August. He has no military background. According to internal defence force documents, seen by City Press sister newspaper Rapport, he was called up indefinitely for active service, while reserve force members are usually only used for active service for three months at a time. Read more. What the Gupta man saw This week, Zuma was hosted by GuptaTV, the same channel that had days earlier hosted the lady with whom he previously engaged in reproductive activities.Among other things, Zuma told the very nice man who was conducting the faux interview that he had been given “quite a strong poison” and that some powers see strong African leaders as enemies and “I’m one of those”.He said many of those pushing for a commission of inquiry into state capture “will regret” because “it’s not going to be choosy” and “going to go to those who have done wrong things”.So, wherever you are, Jan van Riebeeck, Paul Kruger, DF Malan and HF Verwoerd, be very afraid. Msholozi is coming for you, writes Mondli Makhanya. Read more. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  