
        Christopher Panayiotou and co-accused Sinethemba Nenemba have been sentenced to life imprisonment in the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth for the murder of his wife, Jayde.
       
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Gallery bursts out and applauds. Inggs family bursts into tears. Chetty: Conspiracy to commit - Accused 4 gets 15 years.  Chetty deals with accused 3 and 4.  He says the evidence showed that R80k was money destined for the execution.  This was apparent from his defence indicating that they would
seek an appeal before sentencing. He accepts that they are a close-knit family.  Chetty says that in the trial, it was apparent that Chris had taken no responsibility of his action. He has remained indifferent, defiant, and persists in avoiding all responsibility. Chetty says the embryo of Chris' defence was revealed during the second bail application. Chetty says that in the application, Panayiotou had said that, regardless of what was said in the event, he was merely doing what the police had told him to do, and he was trying to get information for them. Chetty quotes from Panayiotou's affidavit: "I loved my wife", he says. The pretence began with his opening affidavit and escalated throughout the trial. The great irony of the trial was his attempt to portray himself as a doting husband. He cautioned Jayde not to stand on the pavement outside the complex.  Chetty says that when the body was found, he does not dispute that when she was found, both her father and father-in-law had shed a tear. But that if Chris shed a tear, based on his own involvement in the murder, he can only deduce that they were "crocodile tears".   Chetty says Panayiotou's behaviour after her death showed his Machiavellian personality. Chetty says he attempted to fool friends and family. Chetty says it was open to the accused to testify in his own defence in mitigation. Chetty says it is wholly unnecessary to regurgitate his findings.  There has been some uncertainty whether substantial and compelling should be dealt with together or separate. Chetty says it is his opinion of dealing with them separately.   Chetty is addressing what consists of mitigating or aggravating circumstances. A departure may be justified by circumstances that are seen as substantial or compelling.  
                Jump to
                top
            