Allister Coetzee. (Gallo) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - President Jacob Zuma is 'attending to' Bongo bribe claims; Diamonds belonging to Princess Diana feature on Meghan Markle’s engagement ring and missing Zimbabwean activist's family still holds out hope after his 2015 abduction.Here are today’s top stories: Online publications dig into Mnangagwa's connections to SA businessman Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has been in office for less than a week, and online publications are already reporting on a "controversial" chrome deal he apparently helped facilitate with South African businessman Zunaid Moti.  Read here. Only 7% of Transnet's senior supply chain staff have been vetted Transnet has only vetted seven percent of senior staff who handle supply chain management, despite a 2014 Cabinet directive to vet all employees in that field. Read more here. Zuma 'attending to' Bongo bribe claims  President Jacob Zuma met with National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete to be briefed on allegations that a bribe was offered to Advocate Ntuthuzelo Vanara, the evidence leader of Parliament’s inquiry into Eskom, according to a statement issued. Fin24 has more here. More fuel price hikes for South Africa Sharp movements in international petroleum prices have combined with a weakening Rand to push fuel prices higher. Read more on Wheels24 here. Mkhwebane has abused Public Protector office - SARB The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) has applied for a declaratory order from the North Gauteng High Court that Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane abused the office of the Public Protector, and wants her to pay legal costs independently. Read here. Mugabe's hero worshippers' message to South Africans Here's something about the continent of Africa I've been wrestling with for some time: a political leader can have tens of thousands of his citizens murdered and destroy his country's economy, but he will still be hailed as a great leader and liberator if he stands up to "Western imperialism" and puts white people in their place. Read more from Max du Preez here. Meghan’s exquisite ring ‘features diamonds that belonged to Princess Diana’ When she died, Princess Diana’s sparkling blue sapphire ring went to the eldest son to give to his bride. Read here. In Zimbabwe, missing activist's family still holds out hope The wife of a missing Zimbabwean activist who was abducted by suspected state agents in 2015 after urging then-President Robert Mugabe to resign said that she hopes the country's new leader will shed light on what happened to her husband. Read here. Coetzee: Boks are moving in right direction The Springboks are showing steady improvement and are moving in the right direction.  Sport24 has more here. Manana co-accused must pay R30 000 or spend 8 months in prison wo men, who helped former deputy minister of higher education Mduduzi Manana assault three women, were sentenced to a fine of R30 000 or eight months direct imprisonment in the Randburg Magistrate's Court. Read here. Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  