News24 Correspondent James Selfe (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Watch live as President Jacob Zuma answers his last set of questions for the year in Parliament. WATCH Cape Town - The Democratic Alliance on Sunday announced that
it had served President Jacob Zuma with papers in order to ascertain the costs
of his legal defence in the so called "Spy Tapes" case. "The DA have… asked the court to direct the President
to confirm…the total amount spent on all legal costs in respect of the decision
by the National Prosecuting Authority to drop 783 counts of fraud, corruption
and racketeering against him," said DA MP James Selfe in a statement. Selfe filed the founding affidavit in the Western Cape High
Court in Cape Town on November 9. During a question and answer session in Parliament on
November 2, Zuma responded to a question on the matter submitted by DA leader
Mmusi Maimane, by stating that he was entitled to legal costs "at state
expense according to the provisions of the State Attorney Act 56 of 1957. "This benefit is extended to all who are employed in
the service of the state. Thank you very much." - Read more: Zuma must go to jail - Maimane after DA walkout A further exchange ensued between DA members and the president,
as well as Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli. The DA was unsatisfied with the final outcome, said Selfe. "The president's 'answer' provided no rand figure or
estimate of expenses at all," he said. "By avoiding the question, the DA believes that both
the president, and the Deputy Speaker, Lechesa Tsenoli, presiding at the time,
who allowed President Zuma to avoid the question, acted unlawfully and
unconstitutionally," Selfe added in the founding affidavit. The affidavit seeks two orders: One that the conduct of Zuma
and Tsenoli be declared "unlawful and unconstitutional"; and
secondly, that the president provide the amount spent in legal fees during his
battle against corruption charges. The DA wants the figure to be submitted, in writing, within
five days, to the National Assembly.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  