
        Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has not resigned in his much-anticipated address to nation. He said he will preside over the next Zanu-PF congress. Follow the live updates. 


     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Mugabe: We must all recognise that their participation in the war (veterans) exacted life-long costs. Mugabe 'agrees to resign', says presidency source Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe's 37-year rule appeared to have come to an end of Sunday after a source confirmed he had agreed to resign and was preparing to address the nation. Mugabe's grip on power was broken last week when the military took over, angered at his wife Grace's emergence as the leading candidate to succeed the 93-year-old president. "Yes he has agreed to resign," a source close to the presidency told AFP after Mugabe's expected television address to the nation was delayed. From AP: Zimbabwe's
President Robert Mugabe is resigning after nearly four decades in power,
according to an official close to the talks on his departure. The news came hours after the
ruling party's Central Committee on Sunday fired Mugabe as party leader and
said if he didn't resign as the country's president by noon Monday it would
start impeachment proceedings. Mugabe was set to address the
nation shortly on state-run television. The official close to the talks spoke
on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to reporters. It is an extraordinary end to
37 years in power for the world's oldest head of state, who had vowed to rule
until death. BREAKING: Official close to talks says Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe resigning after nearly four decades in power. BREAKING: Zimbabwe's Mugabe has agreed to stand down and is working with military on resignation statement - source pic.twitter.com/ypoVFehrYI From AP:  "President RG Mugabe to address the nation live from State House tonight. Please stay tuned," says a ticker announcement on the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation channel. Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe was to make a live television address on Sunday evening, state television announced, as the veteran leader faced the apparent end of his 37-year rule. "President RG Mugabe to address the nation live from State House tonight. Please stay tuned," said a ticker announcement on the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation channel. pic.twitter.com/WpNIC1XT4K President Robert Mugabe this afternoon met with Zimbabwe Defence Forces Generals at State House. https://t.co/NlvEgpoJju pic.twitter.com/gUXZ0yrgKp President Robert Mugabe met with Army Generals this afternoon. pic.twitter.com/m7EViqyPjS Zimbabwe's state-run Herald newspaper has tweeted photos of longtime President Robert Mugabe meeting for a second time with the army commander who put him under house arrest days ago. Mugabe is said to be seeking more time as talks continue on his departure after nearly four decades in power.  But the ruling party is impatient to see him leave, saying Mugabe must resign as president by noon Monday or face impeachment proceedings. - AP ZTV OutSide Broadcast vans at Statehouse. We don’t know what President Mugabe wants to share. We are all ears #Zimbabwe ???? pic.twitter.com/oj2d2HoYal Mugabe's end game: How the president could leave power Zimbabwe's ruling party ZANU-PF sacked President Robert Mugabe as party leader on Sunday marking the accelerating collapse of the 93-year-old's support and power base. Following mass demonstrations calling for him to go, negotiations between Mugabe and the army resumed to plot the end of the president's regime after the army seized power earlier this week.  ZBC Outside Broadcast Vans summoned to the state house.  It looks like a big announcement will be made this evening. Robert Mugabe should have retired long time ago than forced out so embarrassingly & disgraceful. You go with your crimes hanging over your head you monster! pic.twitter.com/eOYlSqu5yb Mnangagwa: Zimbabwe's 'Comeback Crocodile' Emmerson Mnangagwa is well-placed to become the next leader of Zimbabwe, after his sacking as vice president triggered the military's intervention and the fall of Robert Mugabe. On Sunday Mnangagwa was named as president of the ruling ZANU-PF party in place of Mugabe, putting him one step away from the top job with Mugabe told to resign or be forced from office. Nicknamed "Ngwena" (The Crocodile) because of his fearsome power and ruthlessness, Mnangagwa, 75, appeared to have been outfoxed by Mugabe's wife Grace. Mugabe and army chiefs hold further talks: state media President Robert Mugabe and the army chiefs who have seized power in Zimbabwe met for further talks Sunday, state media said, as pressure builds on the veteran leader to resign. "President Robert Mugabe this afternoon met with Zimbabwe Defence Forces Generals at State House," the Herald said on its Twitter feed, accompanied by photographs. - AFP Mugabe's recall is historical - Zanu-PF official Zanu-PF members who voted for President Robert Mugabe to be recalled are part of a "historical moment". This is what Zimbabwe's secretary of finance Dr Obert Mpofu said on Sunday. He was addressing the Zanu-PF's central executive committee shortly after the party announced Emmerson Mnangagwa as its interim president.Mpofu said Mnangagwa's appointment will rejuvenate the party. This is Mugabe’s political party dancing after sacking him & expelling his wife. Today is historic in Zimbabwe... pic.twitter.com/sfOEp3onju Zanu-PF: Fired VP Mnangagwa should be president Zimbabwe's ruling party Central Committee says recently fired vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa should be its nominee to take over as the country's president. The party has fired longtime President Robert Mugabe as its party chief and said if he doesn't step down as president by midday Monday they will begin impeachment proceedings when Parliament resumes on Tuesday. The decisions follow a dramatic few days in which the military put Mugabe under house arrest, angered by his firing of Mnangagwa and positioning of the unpopular first lady to replace him — and likely succeed her husband as leader. 
                Jump to
                top
            