Mahlatse Gallens  DA leader Mmusi Maimane. (Jaco Marais, Gallo Images, Die Burger) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The Democratic Alliance has called
for Zimbabwe's president Robert Mugabe to resign and the country to hold fresh
elections, as the security situation in that country deteriorates.  "This will allow the people of Zimbabwe to choose a new
direction for their country, and to free themselves from the tyrannical reign
of Robert Mugabe and his Zanu-PF. True democracy is adhering to the will of the
people, not the internal politics and arrangements of liberation
movements,"  DA leader Mmusi Maimane said in a statement on Wednesday.  Maimane said the current instability was a cause for concern for democracy on the continent. Political tension in the southern African country
deteriorated when Mugabe fired his vice president Emmerson Mngangwa last week –
amidst a leadership battle within the ruling Zanu-PF.  Mnangagwa's firing followed public attacks by the First Lady
Grace Mugabe, who is said to have  presidential ambitions to replace
Mugabe at the Zanu-PF special congress to be held in December.  Maimane blamed the imploding chaos in Zimbabwe on South
Africa’s so called "quiet diplomacy" during former president Thabo Mbeki’s
term.  'The original sin' Mbeki was the SADC mediator in that country and negotiated a
government of national unity that included Morgan Tsvangarai's Movement for Democratic Change (MDC). "While the involvement of the military in politics is never to
be celebrated, it must be noted that the original sin in the sad collapse of
Zimbabwe was the South African government’s failure, under President Mbeki, to
stand up for democracy and enforce the results of the 2008 election. Allowing
Mr Mugabe to remain in office even after losing an election clearly sowed the
seeds for what we are seeing today,  Maimane said.  Tsvangarai was said to have won the 2008 elections. A recount
and the verification of the results showed that he had won 47.9% of the
vote while Mugabe won 43.2%, necessitating a run-off which was to be held 27
June 2008. Maimane called on International Relations and Co-operations
minister Maine Nkoana-Mashabane to  brief the country on the nature and
extent of the crisis in Zimbabwe and what action government will take. Earlier President Jacob Zuma who is also the chair of  the
regional body SADC  released a statement calling for restraint and condemning
any unconstitutional take over in the country. "Presidency has called for calm and restraint and has expressed
hope that developments in Zimbabwe would not lead to unconstitutional changes
of government as that would be contrary to both SADC and African Union
positions," the presidency said.  Zuma said that SADC stood ready to assist in the political impasse
currently gripping the country 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  