Alex Mitchley EFF leader Julius Malema. (City Press) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The Economic Freedom Fighters, together with representatives from the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation and the Palestinian Solidarity Alliance, picketed the Israeli Embassy in Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH Pretoria – EFF leader Julius Malema has called for the closure of the Israeli embassy in South Africa and for South Africa to close its embassy in Israel in solidarity with Palestine. At a picket outside the Israeli embassy in Pretoria on Thursday, Malema called for support for the people of Palestine in their fight against "apartheid Israel", which, Malema said, was oppressing Palestine and depriving its people of their land. He said this was a struggle all too familiar in South Africa. "The EFF is not an organisation for South Africans only, the EFF represents all those who reject imperialism and colonialism," said Malema. "EFF represents the masses of oppressed people all over the world. It doesn't matter whether you are white or black. As long as you are fighting colonialism, as long as you are fighting imperialism, as long as you know that USA is the enemy of the people, you are a friend of the EFF. "That madman that is a president of the USA agrees entirely with the nonsense that is happening in Palestine, the nonsense that is perpetuated by apartheid Israel." 'If South Africans can do it, you can do it' Malema called on South Africans not to visit Israel and for academic institutions and businesses to cut all ties with the country until the land is returned to the Palestinians. He likened this action to the support received during apartheid when many countries placed economic and sporting sanctions on South Africa.  "If we boycott everything then they will feel the pain and go into genuine negotiations with Palestinian authorities," he said. Malema also called for a one-state solution. Jews and Palestinians should live under one roof, he said. "We are living here with Afrikaners, it doesn't matter how much we hate them, we have to live with them because they have been naturalised here. "If South Africans can do it, you can do it."  DA 'a rebound' Malema also touched on local politics as he launched an offensive against the DA, which he said represented Israel. He said that the EFF votes with the DA should not be "confused" as support for Israel. "Our vote with the DA does not mean we support their ideological orientation."  Malema said the EFF was "passing time" with its partnership with the DA. "DA is like what you call a person you date after breaking up with your genuine girlfriend, DA is a rebound. We will meet the real lover, we are still passing time. Because DA represents apartheid Israel here, we are not confused about that. "But we have a problem with these criminals called the ANC who are stealing directly without any shame. That is why we are saying in the meantime let us pause a bit here while we are still looking for a permanent solution to the crisis of South Africa." Malema also spoke out about the #BlackMonday protest, saying among other things, that the police were scared of white people. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  