Correspondent  Emmerson Mnangagwa (Picture: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - It's been an incredible week in Zimbabwe. A man once thought
to be untouchable – former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa – has been sacked
and expelled from the ruling party and has fled into exile. What does that mean
for ordinary Zimbabweans? Mugabe’s grip tightened or more factions? When former vice president Joice Mujuru was expelled from
Zanu-PF three years ago, it was thought that a major threat to Mugabe’s hold on
power had been dealt with once and for all. But two more factions were ready
and waiting to vie for the top job – one led by Mujuru’s successor, Emmerson
Mnangagwa and another aligned to First Lady Grace Mugabe, the G40 faction. Could we see more factions arising from Zanu-PF? After all, Mugabe uses
factions to his advantage, playing one off against the other. Political
commentator Vince Musewe says that whatever happens in the ruling party, the
aim is always to keep Mugabe in his position. "The situation is fluid and
unpredictable except for one thing – it ensures Robert Mugabe stays in power." Will Mnangagwa make a grab for power? In a statement attributed to the exiled VP, Mnangagwa says
that he will return to lead Zimbabwe. Opposition politician and former
education minister David Coltart thinks those words are ominous, at least for
the former vice president's political opponents. Writing on Twitter, Coltart
said: "The nub of Mnangagwa's statement was 'we will very soon control the
levers of power in our party and country'…This must send a few shivers down G40
backs." Musewe sees Mnangagwa's vow to return as "wishful thinking". He asked: "He's been in leadership for years. What's he going to offer us that he hasn't
before?" Third VP? All 10 of Zimbabwe's ruling party's provinces have endorsed
Grace as vice president. That doesn’t mean she’ll step into position
immediately. Other names are being bandied about as possible candidates to fill
Mnangagwa’s post: they include the defence minister, Sydney Sekeramayi and the
finance minister Ignatius Chombo. But the party’s youth and the women’s wings
are determined to get a woman into the presidium. This could see a situation
where there are three vice presidents, with Grace (most probably) fulfilling
the ‘women’s quota’. A clumsy arrangement? Actually, Morgan Tsvangirai’s MDC
has led the way on that one – it too has three vice presidents, including a
woman. It’s the economy, stupid Beyond the political intrigue, Zimbabwe’s economy is in real
trouble, marked by cash shortages and rising prices. In an opinion editorial,
the respected Source news agency said: "The reality remains: the economy is in
crisis and Mugabe and his victorious faction still don’t know what to do about
it.” It said while locals this week fed on a stream of news on Zimbabwe’s
political drama and “celebrated the downfall of one faction and the victory of
another, some elderly men and women spent the night on the pavement to be first
in line for a measly pension.” Jaded electorate One might think the serious divisions within the ruling
party would present an ideal opportunity for the opposition MDC and its
alliance partners ahead of next year’s polls. But the alliance is doing little
to spread a message of hope among a jaded electorate. Analyst Musewe says the
opposition isn’t unified, and it doesn’t have the resources that Zanu-PF has. "People say the Zanu-PF divisions give the opposition a unique opportunity. What
opportunity? It creates a serious awareness that we’re in transition – to where
we don’t know. Nobody has a clue." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  