(iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      Robert J. Traydon If people think this unique era of non-conquest is destined
to last forever, think again. Yes, we'd all like to believe that the current man-made
fairy-tale of definitive borders is set in stone for all eternity, but in
reality, the future is anything but set in stone. Human history has revolved around conquest for at least 10 000
years, with events as recent as WW2 having had the potential to radically
redraw the world's political map as we know it today. Just imagine a world where Nazi Germany's empire stretches
across Europe, Russia and Africa; and Imperial Japan across China, South East
Asia and Australia. This was very nearly a reality – fortunately averted by the
courageous efforts of Allied forces. Since the establishment of the United Nations (UN) in 1945, borders
have remained relatively intact besides the dissolution of the Soviet Union and
various other minor
territorial amendments. This is due to the fact that territorial conquest in the
modern context is deemed unlawful, and if attempted will face global condemnation,
stiff sanctions and potentially even military intervention. But as the wave of anti-globalisation gains momentum, the UN
is finding itself caught in a death spiral of declining influence. Not only
that, the United States (US) and Europe are seen as waning champions of
democracy, losing ground to their autocratic counterparts, China and Russia, as
they stamp their unwavering authority around the world. This spells serious trouble for the African continent. Should the world ever enter a period of grave instability
and isolationism, most likely triggered by a climate change (and rising sea
level) worst-case scenario, then the UN might well find itself on the brink of
obsolescence.  As parts of our world become steadily submerged, unproductive
and uninhabitable, so nations will be forced to 'seek alternative territory' under
the banner of 'societal self-preservation' … and Africa will be a tantalisingly
easy target. As a last resort, stronger nations facing the risk of 'societal
extinction' would have to conquer other habitable, arable – and most likely
already populated – lands to resettle their populations, thereby ensuring their
societies' survival into the future. Highly concerning though, is that this second round of 'colonisation'
would be utterly ruthless. When looking at the post-colonial world today, it's apparent
that three of the world's six inhabited continents remain largely in the hands
of their original colonisers. These include North America, South America and
Australia, which are all predominantly controlled by descendants of European
settlers. Contrasting these, are the two continents which were able to
ultimately liberate themselves from their European colonisers. These include
Asia (specifically China, India and South-East Asia) and Africa.  The core distinction that determined whether a continent
remained colonised or not, was the size of the indigenous population in
relation to the settler population. In the case of the US, Canada, Australia and the majority of
South American nations, huge numbers of colonists displaced the indigenous
populations to the point of extinction – either directly through conflict/eradication,
or indirectly through disease.  Once the settler population size constituted the majority in
each of these nations, their colonial destinies were sealed. Not only this, the
transition to democratic rule was greatly simplified. However, in the case of China, India and Africa, the
indigenous populations were mostly subdued by their European colonisers and used
as labour. Although there were large numbers of indigenous people who died at
the hands of their colonisers and/or from disease, the comparative proportions of
indigenous population were significantly lower than those who suffered the same
fate in the Americas and Australia. Because of this, the Chinese, Indian and African indigenous
populations far outnumbered their respective settler populations. And, as a
result of their 'majority status' (in a world where democracy was swiftly becoming
the trend), minority settler populations were soon either expelled from their
colonies or compelled to relinquish power to the majority indigenous
populations. Thus, an extremely dangerous precedent has been set. If, at
some point in the future, a nation is forced to colonise inhabited territory in
the interest of perpetuating the future survival of its own society, then, to
nullify the risk of ever losing the territory gained, the indigenous population
must be displaced from that territory in its entirety. And, as the world descends into anarchy, it would quickly
become a case of 'survival of the strongest' – i.e. those nations equipped with
the most powerful militaries, led by people with the most ruthless resolve for their
societies' self-preservation. The African continent as a whole is hugely dependent on the
international community at almost every level. This is emphasised by the fact
that international intervention is called for whenever there are disease
outbreaks, natural
disasters, military
coups, terrorist
attacks, genocides
or threats
of mass starvation … to mention but a few.  But less recognised (and appreciated) is the blanket
protection that the international community provides over the African continent.
Right now, a second scramble for Africa is inconceivable because, firstly,
there is currently no need for it, and secondly, the UN has sufficient clout to
persuade any potential colonisers otherwise. Unfortunately, the African Union (AU) has proven itself completely
incapable and hopelessly equipped to deal with situations of this magnitude and/or
coordinate a continent-wide defence program.  So if, for example, China did one day decide to invade East
Africa to relocate its drowning coastal populations, the AU would immediately
call upon the UN to intervene militarily and halt the invasion. The uncomfortable fact is that continental Africa is conspicuously
vulnerable to foreign invasion. And even though colonisation is, today, regarded
as taboo, this viewpoint would likely thaw in a 'survival of the strongest' world. Right now, the AU should take charge of the continent's long-term
defence strategy. Yes, the world is a safe place today, but in a century's time
it might well be just as dangerous as it was two centuries ago. My advice to African leaders is as follows: stop your
corruption and patronage; stop and reverse your increasingly regressive
political antics and economic policy; and, above all, stop vilifying and blaming
the West for all of Africa's largely self-inflicted failings. Now is the time for Africa to wake-up and take cognisance of
climate change, rising sea levels and the potentially lethal threat of a second
scramble. Besides societal upliftment, African governments should dedicate a
portion of their fiscus toward building up and consolidating our continent's
military defences. Not only this, we should also be making a concerted effort
to forge ironclad relationships with the West, because Africa might well need
their military assistance one day in the not-so-distant future! In closing, let me be clear that conquest/colonisation is
repugnant and wrong – but we shouldn't be complacent in thinking it will never
happen again. So, if or when it does, Africa had better be prepared and ready
to defend itself. - Robert J. Traydon is a BSc graduate of Engineering and the
author of 'Wake-up
Call: 2035'.  He has travelled to
over 40 countries across six continents and worked in various business spheres.
His contrarian articles explore a
wide range of current affairs from a uniquely intriguing perspective. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   