Mxolisi Mngadi Petrus Moyo escaped from the Lephalale police station holding cells on Monday night. (SAPS) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Marlene Conradie, the widow of wine farmer Joubert Conradie, 47, who was killed on his farm in Klapmuts last Tuesday, said she was overwhelmed by support from people who joined the #BlackMonday protest.WATCH Polokwane – A massive manhunt has been launched by Lephalale police after an awaiting trial prisoner - charged with the murder of a doctor who was killed during a farm attack - escaped from holding cells on Monday night, police said on Tuesday. Petrus Moyo, 27, was part of a group of armed men who fatally shot Dr Werner Emslie and also injured his wife - who is also a doctor – during the attack on September 20, said Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe. Before his escape, Moyo had appeared before the Lephalale Magistrate's Court on Monday, said Ngoepe. His case was postponed to December 14 for further police investigations. "He was denied bail," said Ngoepe. The farm attack in September took place at about 20:00. "Dr Werner Emslie, aged 55, was sitting outside the house on his farm at Afguns outside Lephalale when four unknown men, two armed with pistols, attacked and shot him to death and further shot his 55-year-old wife who is also a doctor. She survived the attack with serious injuries and was immediately taken to the hospital for medical treatment," said Ngoepe. Read more here: Doctor killed, family injured in Limpopo farm attack During that evening, the suspects took two hand guns and drove away with Dr Emslie's white Toyota double cab bakkie. "The vehicle was later found abandoned a distance away from this house." Moyo was arrested on October 18, at Frankfort in the Free State. "He was charged with murder, house breaking and theft and illegal immigration after it was confirmed that he is in the country illegally," he said. The other suspects remain at large. Police urged anyone with information which may lead to Moyo's re-arrest to contact the nearest police station or the Crime Stop number 0860010111. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  