Mpho Tshikhudo PHOTO: Sharon Seretlo 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      Knowing her and what she stands for, we were not surprised to spot her at the Randburg Magistrate court where former Higher Education Deputy Minister Mduduzi Manana will be sentenced. TV presenter and activist Andile Gaelesiwe and a group of protesters have been picketing outside the court since the beginning of the trial. Before to Manana’s case – Manana’s pleaded guilty to three charges of assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm – Andile was seen at Midrand Magistrate where kwaito mogul Arthur Mafokate appeared on a count of assault. Arthur is facing assault charges following an alleged violent with his artist and lover, Busisiwe ‘Cici’ Twala. Andile was the first celebrity to break her silence, sticking up for Cici when news of the singer’s abuse first came to light. The Khumbul’ekhaya presenter is has joined the #NotInMyName campaign which seeks to speak out against abuse. Andile is the Chief Liaison Officer of #NotInMyName South Africa. Randburg Magistrate court #MduduziManana trial..dankie fighters together we say #NotInMyName.we are back kusasa @EFFSouthAfrica @tumisole pic.twitter.com/EiDA3LSr50  “We are so committed to what we are doing because no one is out there supporting victims of violence, whether it’s sexual violence, assault or battery,” she said. “For me now is the hope that the law is going to do what is necessary.” “For us as #NotInMyName what is important is that an ordinary South African, a female, a male will know that the law actually works.”  She added: “To say to women, we are here to support you. This case is not personal; it’s not a thing where #NotInMyName hates Mduduzi Manana. No! We hate the act. For us it’s about our communities and the fact that enough is enough now.” According to Andile, Manana’s supporters were hostile to members of #NotInMyName campaign picketing at the court. Speaking to Drum, Andile said Manana’s supporters hurled insults at the #NotInMyName campaigners. “His supporters were swearing at us,” she said. “We appreciate EFF members for coming to support us.  “As for Mduduzi we want him to go to jail. There’s no remorse that’s being shown here. He said he’s going for counseling. “We don’t know when that started and how long it’s going on and if it’s genuine or if it’s to help to mitigate the sentence.” Manana's sentencing has been postponed to Monday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  