President Jacob Zuma  (Deaan Vivier, Gallo Images, Beeld) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      Reports have surfaced over the weekend
indicating that President Jacob Zuma is planning to announce government's plan
to provide free education at higher institutions of learning. The Presidency has subsequently issued a
statement pouring cold water on the reported impending announcement.  The story that the president intends to
announce free education was rumoured some weeks ago already. A week before Dr.
Blade Nzimande was removed as higher education minister, it was reported
that the president wanted a loyalist at the education department to process the
Fees Commission report.  It was further intimated that the president
might replace Nzimande with Dr. Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma so that she could be the
one to champion a radical policy shift, i.e. announce free tertiary education. The same story is now back in the news,
except for the fact that the president's Cabinet reshuffle did not result in
Nzimande being replaced by Dlamini-Zuma, but by someone else.  Even if the Presidency denies it, chances
are that there will be an announcement on free education simply because Zuma will
not be able to resist the political mileage that he will gain from it.  Appeasing angry, disenchanted students who
are beginning to listen to the EFF as an appealing alternative is something
that Zuma would consider. By providing free education, he will also be clearing the
road to the 2019 elections which is becoming more and more precarious for the
ANC. The call for free education has been
supported by some academics and respected South Africans, including a retired
judge. The campaign counts among the most sustained movements in democratic South
Africa, comparable to the campaign that pushed government to provide free
anti-retroviral medication to HIV/Aids patients in the country. The main issue that has been raised against
the provision of free education is affordability. The cost is said to be
prohibitively high, and might entail that some South Africans forego certain
services so that government can direct more funds towards free education, as it
has already been reported. I do not think Zuma is committed to market
gimmicks and affordability talk. If he announces free education, which I am
convinced he will, he will have to do it quickly, as in before the ANC elective
conference in December. This will assist Dlamini-Zuma's campaign, which has
been relying on abstract messages such as radical economic transformation.  Upon the announcement by the president,
Dlamini-Zuma can then add free education as a subheading to the radical economic
transformation agenda. That nearly completes the picture of her candidacy. Given that her opponent for the ANC
presidency, Cyril Ramaphosa, has been running a campaign based on
circumspection and maintaining a moderate posture towards the markets and the
economy, Dlamini-Zuma will be the only candidate to become the instant
custodian of free education.  The choice between Ramaphosa and
Dlamini-Zuma will be a choice between free education and a continuation of the
status quo. This is, of course, a false choice in the sense that Dlamini-Zuma
cannot provide free education without severe compromises being made in relation
to other budgetary considerations, while Ramaphosa cannot continue with the
status quo as far as funding and the state of higher education are concerned. I won't be surprised if Dlamini-Zuma has already
prepared speeches on how she plans to defend free education against those who
are captured by white monopoly capital. Ramaphosa, on the other hand, will
remain reasonable and well-measured when it comes to free education. Attacking it
altogether will not work for him. He can only give a perspective and state that
we need to do this in a careful and sustained way to preserve the economy.  Dlamini-Zuma's
message will be fitting for the demagogue and a few people who are genuinely
frustrated with the state of tertiary education.  The game plan with free education does not
end with the leadership tussle between Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma, but goes
straight to the heart of the ANC's 2019 election strategy.   For now, Zuma is dangling the free education
carrot so as to woo a bigger support base for Dlamini-Zuma's wobbly campaign to
win the elective conference. Come to think of it, Dlamini-Zuma can
actually go ahead and publicly start defending free education without Zuma
making any announcement. That's politics: you drive the rumour about something
you intend to do, you then deny it while your loyalists cash in political
points by defending your decision as a hypothetical point because you will
still be denying it. - Ralph Mathekga is a Fellow at the SARChI Chair: African Diplomacy and Foreign Policy at the University of Johannesburg and author of When Zuma Goes. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   