
        Zimbabweans calling for a 'New Zimbabwe' have started to converge in their numbers for a planned protest against President Robert Mugabe, who has ruled the country for 37 years.
      ALSO READ:AS IT HAPPENED: There will be fireworks #Zimbabwe war veterans warn Mugabe ALSO READ: Mugabe to exile in SA? ALSO READ:AS IT HAPPENED: Zimbabwe military supports anti-Mugabe rally   
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 WATCH: We don't have the basics, can't afford schooling...we are so tired - Zim protester  Zimbabwe: Developments since the military takeover  Here is a timeline of the developing political crisis in Zimbabwe, where the military has taken control of the country but President Robert Mugabe is clinging to power.  Army takes control  - November 14: Tanks are seen moving on the outskirts of the capital a day after army chief Constantino Chiwenga denounces Mugabe's sacking of Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa.  Mnangagwa is seen as a rival of Mugabe's wife Grace, 52, to succeed the veteran 93-year-old leader.  Later, heavy gunfire is heard near Mugabe's residence in Harare.  Military officers deny a coup. In an overnight declaration on state television, they say Mugabe is safe and they are "only targeting criminals around him".  Mugabe under house arrest  - November 15: Military vehicles take control of the streets of Harare from the early hours, controlling access to parliament, ruling party headquarters and the Supreme Court.  South Africa says Mugabe has told its president, Jacob Zuma, by telephone that he is under house arrest but is "fine".  South Africa sends two special envoys to Zimbabwe. The European Union urges a peaceful resolution to the crisis.   Zimbabweans are out in numbers against Mugabe misrule. (Fin24 correspondent Crecey Kuyedzwa)   #AntiMugabeRally 'an opportunity for a fresh start', says Zim pastor Mawarire  Thousands of Zimbabweans are expected to demand President Robert Mugabe'sresignation on Saturday at a march in the capital, Harare.  The march to State House is backed by the army, which seized power on Wednesday.  Demonstration is also expected to take place at City Hall in Bulawayo, the second city.  Zimbabwe has been in political turmoil since the early hours of Wednesday, when the country's armed forces seized power and placed Mugabe - who leads the Zanu-PF party, under house arrest.  March organiser Chris Mutsvangwa, who leads the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association, said the rare show of public defiance against the president is not a Zanu-PF affair, but "a show of people's force" against Mugabe's 37-year rule.  William Gerald Lumumba Mutumanje - popularly known as Acie Lumumba, an activist who was expelled as the Zanu-PF youth leader, said the demonstration was a "send-off" for Mugabe as he encouraged people to march to State House.   People are arriving in buses, on trucks and fully packed cars. They are waving flags as they're arriving at the sports ground while celebrating "the New Zimbabwe".   'Go, go, our general,' giddy Zimbabweans say as they gather to march against Mugabe  Euphoric crowds have gathered in Zimbabwe's capital to demand the departure of President Robert Mugabe after nearly four decades in power.  In a colourful gathering that even days ago would have drawn an immediate police crackdown, Zimbabweans giddy with joy raced through intersections, raising their arms in triumph. Young men shouted, laughed and embraced.  Some had posters with an image of the military commander who swept in earlier this week and put Mugabe under house arrest, with the slogan: "Go, go, our general!!!" Marchers handed flags to soldiers, who accepted and waved.  "It's like Christmas," said one marcher, Fred Mubay, who said Zimbabweans have been suffering for a long time.  The 93-year-old Mugabe, the world's oldest head of state, is said to be asking for more time amid negotiations that seek his exit with a veneer of dignity.   Crowds outside State House.   (Photo: Matthew Moxon)   Motion to oust Mugabe tabled in parliament - report  A motion of 'no confidence' in embattled Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has reportedly been tabled in parliament by an opposition lawmaker, according to a report.  According to NewsDay, the motion was filed early this week and was expected to get support from across the political divide.  Unnamed sources said MDC-T Mabvuku-Tafara lawmaker James Maridadi had notified the speaker of parliament of his intention to move for a motion to impeach Mugabe.   Mugabe 'must go today, not any other day', protesters chant at #Anti-MugabeRally Zimbabweans have on Saturday started gathering at the Highfields sports ground in Harare, calling for President Robert Mugabe to step down.  Some called it a historic day, hoping for change after Mugabe's nearly four decades as president. Some had the national flag draped around their shoulders.  As a group of soldiers arrived at the stadium, they were met with cheers and song.  "He must go today, not tomorrow. He must go today and not any other day," said one man. 'Mugabe no
longer has regional backing, he must go,' says Botswana leader Botswana's
President Ian Khama has told his Zimbabwean counterpart Robert Mugabe to step
down as he no longer has any regional support to cling on to power, says a
report.
 According
to New Zimbabwe.com,
Khama said that the military intervention in the southern African country has
also "presented an opportunity to put Zimbabwe to a path of peace and
prosperity". 
                Jump to
                top
            