
        The ongoing trial of triple murder accused Henri van Breda in the Western Cape High Court has been postponed until Monday, November 13, following his cross examination by the judge and lawyers.
       - For the latest updates, follow News24 reporter Tammy Petersen: @TammyPetersen87   WATCH LIVE: Van Breda Trial - Day 58   
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Judge Desai: "This case is postponed till Monday the 13th of November..."   Judge Desai questions the merits of bringing the psychologist into court at this stage.   Advocate Botha addresses Judge Desai.   Judge Desai: "I do not wish to hear privileged information."   Henri van Breda is excused from the stand.   Judge Desai: "How did the blood spots get onto the shoes?"   Judge Desai now questioning Van Breda.   Court resumes.   Court adjourns briefly.   Van Breda answers Botha's question about Sasha (the family dog).   Van Breda says his grip could have been superior to that of the attacker's.   Adv. Botha: (Prior to the alleged axe attack) "How many violent attacks did you view in your life?"  Van Breda: "None."  Advocate Botha to re-examine.   Adv Botha to re-examine. #VanBreda asked if he knows how and when attackers gained access to De Zalze. No, he says. Henri van Breda is back in the stand.   Henri #VanBreda is back in the witness box. Proceedings in the Western Cape High Court start shortly. pic.twitter.com/U6DYzVvlBU You can live stream the #VanBreda trial on News24 from 10:00.News24 journalist @TammyPetersen87 will be tweeting from court. pic.twitter.com/8spDZYLkp7 ICYMI:  Henri van Breda accused of 'selective memory loss'  The State on Monday accused Henri van Breda of having selective memory loss, especially with regard to incriminating evidence against him.  Van Breda is accused of axing his parents and brother to death, seriously injuring his sister and defeating the ends of justice.  "You had ample time to consider the State's case against you and to think of explanations for things you consider incriminating," prosecutor Susan Galloway told him during cross-examination.  "Where you can't come up with a reasonable explanation you say you can't remember."  Van Breda denied this.  "I say I can't recall when I can't recall."  Galloway said Van Breda's memory became vague when he could not give an alternative explanation and that his memory loss occurred in relation to incriminating evidence against him.   ICYMI:  Henri Van Breda re-enacts alleged fight with balaclava-clad intruder  Armed with a fake axe and replica knife, Henri van Breda on Thursday re-enacted the alleged fight between himself and a masked intruder, demonstrating how he sustained the minor wounds he claims to have suffered in the attack which saw three of his family members bludgeoned to death almost three years ago.  With Sergeant Clinton Malan – who took Van Breda's first statement to the police – assuming the role of the balaclava-clad attacker, Van Breda slowly took the court through his alleged movements as he came face to face with the man in a corner of his bedroom.  He demonstrated how he disarmed the axe-wielding suspect, who produced a knife and swiped at him, causing the cuts on his forearm, chest and, later, a stab wound to his side.  He also showed how he came to hit the attacker on the left shoulder before the man apparently fled.   ICYMI:  Henri van Breda says he does not recognise axe used to kill his parents, brother Triple murder accused Henri van Breda said he did not recognise the axe used to bludgeon his parents and brother to death, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday.  During his first day in the witness box, the 22-year-old said he had never seen the axe around the family's De Zalze Estate house before.  This despite the family's domestic worker Precious Munyongani earlier testifying that the murder weapon looked like the axe stored on a shelf in the scullery from where she used to fetch the ironing board.  Van Breda, while giving his evidence-in-chief, said prior to seeing the axe, exhibit one, in court, he hadn't seen it before, but would not dispute that Munyongani had seen a similar one in their Stellenbosch house.  He also denied killing his parents and brother with an axe, attacking his sister Marli, and staging the scene to make it look as if he had thrown the weapon at a wall in the house.   
                Jump to
                top
            