
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - President Robert Mugabe has ceased power in Zimbabwe, the ANC has extended the deadline for branches to hold nomination meetings and the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearing stalls. Scroll through some of our stories making headlines: 'This is a big moment for Zim' - opposition MDC after Mugabe steps downZimbabwe’s main opposition, the Movement for Democratic Change party, has described the resignation of long-time leader Robert Mugabe as a "new beginning for everyone in the country".Luthando Vikilahle filed this report Presidential hopeful Emmerson Mnangagwa flying from SA to ZimbabweFormer vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa is in South Africa and is expected to fly to Zimbabwe to be sworn in as president, sources say.Read Mugabe goes - is Zuma next?Zimbabwe's 21/11 moment could inspire the ANC to elect Cyril Ramaphosa as its next president next month, writes Adriaan Basson.  Read this column Elated crowds flood Harare streets as Robert Mugabe steps down Jake: No time for Boks to recover before RWC 2019 Former national coach Jake White cannot foresee the Springboks being a force at the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan. Read the story on Sport24 Beyoncé the highest-earning woman in music Beyoncé has raked in earnings more than any other female in the music industry from June 2016 to June of this year, according to Forbes. Channel24 has more                                                          Beyoncé (Getty)  ANC extends deadline for branches to hold nomination meetings The ANC says it has extended the deadline for its branches to hold their crucial meetings to nominate presidential candidates. More  Ramaphosa in the lead with 74% of nominations tallied - IRR The latest estimations based on 74% of branch general meeting nominations place Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa in the lead for the ANC presidency. Yet, the race is still too close to call, says the IRR's Frans Cronje. Read this analysis  Life Esidimeni: Manamela threatened with arrest after no-show Suspended Gauteng director of mental health Makgabo Manamela faces a warrant of arrest should she not appear on Thursday before the Life Esidimeni arbitration hearing. Full story Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  