Mxolisi Mngadi (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – A couple has been arrested for allegedly hijacking a property in Kenilworth, south of Johannesburg, the City's Executive Mayor Herman Mashaba said on Saturday. Mashaba revealed that the husband and wife had been collecting R20 000 a month from the building's tenants since December last year. Their arrest on Friday night follows a sting operation led by the city's Group Forensic and Investigation Services (GFIS), South African Police Service (Saps) and the Johannesburg Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD), Mashaba said in a statement. "It is alleged that in December 2016 the pair went to the property in Kenilworth and informed all the tenants that the property does not belong to the complainant (its owner), it was under investigation and that they should not pay rent to him.  The pair have since been collecting monthly rental totalling R20 000," he said. The mayor said when the rightful owner went to the property to try and address the matter with the tenants and the alleged hijackers he was threatened and told to never come back to the property. "The complainant then approached GFIS for assistance.  An investigation conducted by GFIS proved that the complainant was indeed the rightful owner of the property," he said. The couple is expected to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court on Monday, according to Mashaba. He said they are pleased with the strides they have made in addressing the issue of the hijacked building in Johannesburg. "The City has conducted an audit of some 500 bad buildings, about 134 of which are confirmed as hijacked. Twenty four of the 500 bad buildings belong to the City," he revealed. He warned that the City was not a hiding place for criminals. "The City will not leave any stone unturned when dealing with criminal activities within its area of jurisdiction and we will continue to intensify the raids at these bad and hijacked properties with the assistance of Saps and other law enforcement agencies," he said. The pair have since been collecting monthly rental totaling R20 000 since December 2016. pic.twitter.com/y9ezZs9KNg   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  