Ntozakhe Mthukwane, Correspondent ANC Northern Cape's Zamani Saul with Sylvia Lucas (Lerato Sejake/News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Kimberley – Former ANC Youth League firebrand and current EFF MPL Shadrack Tlhaole has claimed that he has damning evidence against a Northern Cape ANC official and government officials which proves corruption. At a media briefing, Tlhaole claimed that three companies were allegedly paid bribes which were facilitated by an ANC official in the John Taolo Gaetsewe district (JTG). The kickbacks amounted to R50 000, R125 000 and R200 000 respectively. ALSO READ: ANC Northern Cape conference results challenged in court "Exposing the JTG district is just a start, we have more throughout the province. This company claims to be 'dormant' when it submits tax returns to SARS, yet it makes a profit of R500 000 per month. "We are doing this publicly at a huge risk to our lives. We don't want to die like Sindiso Magaqa, who was killed before the perpetrators were brought to book. We also don't trust the local Hawks. We will lay a charge at national level," Tlhaole said. He also challenged SARS, the NPA and Northern Cape Premier Sylvia Lucas "to prove us wrong". In May this year, City Press reported that government looting and corruption of R26m had prompted Lucas to reshuffle the provincial cabinet. 'Solely funded by party' Tlhaole claims that the looted funds were used to fund the much-contested ANC provincial conference in May. The accused ANC official claimed this was Tlhaole's third attack on him: "My company is legitimate. I challenge him to open a case," he said. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said that investigations into the allegations of the R26m case were stalled, because the complainant hadn’t provided documents. "Without these the investigations can't move." ALSO READ: Union plans mass action against Northern Cape government over corruption Tlhaole said he would open a case on Monday, but had yet to do so. Regarding the R26m corruption case, provincial ANC chairperson Zamani Saul said: "As the ANC, we learnt about this case from the media. The premier assured us that she did not leak the information. "Our provincial conference was solely funded by party political funds. R1.8m was given to the ANC and R1.4m was paid to service providers." Spokesperson for Lucas, Bronwyn Thomas-Abrahams, said: "We can confirm a meeting between the premier and the Hawks on the (R26m) case, but the details pertaining to that meeting may not be discussed."  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  