Constantino Chiwenga (Picture: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Zimbabweans have taken to social media to air their views following threats by the country's army chief to stage a coup if President Robert Mugabe doesn't rein in his warring Zanu-PF lieutenants. See tweets from social media users below Addressing journalists at a press conference in Harare, Defence Forces commander Constantino Chiwenga demanded a "stop" to the purges in the ruling Zanu-PF following the sacking of vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. Chiwenga criticised the instability in the revolutionary party. The press briefing was attended by at least 90 senior army officers at the army headquarters in Harare. Chiwenga said that "instability" in the ruling party had caused "distress, trepidation and despondence". He accused the party of expelling senior officials who participated in the 1970s war against white-minority ruled Rhodesia, saying "counter revolutionaries" were plotting to destroy the party. "The current purging and cleansing process in Zanu-PF which so far is targeting mostly members associated with our liberation history is a serious cause for concern for us in the defense forces," said Chiwenga. "We must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution, the military will not hesitate to step in. The current purging of which is clearly targeting members of the party with a liberation background must stop forthwith." General Chiwenga's hard-hitting statement against Zanu P F politicians is very significant. Zimbabwe could be on the cusp of something epoch-defining. Normally we would say the army should not interfere in politics but since its Zanu PF who first thought it wise to use the army in their politics, we say "pedzeranayi ikoko". Its none of our business.#chiwenga #press #conference Chiwenga you are a servant appointed to lead and not elected says Zanu PF youth leader Chipanga in response to sentiments by Commander Defense Forces yesterday Africa: Zimbabwe, The Former Zanu PF youth leader, Acie Lumumba saysRobert Mugabe won't be the President of Zimbabwe in the next 48 hours if he doesn't abandon the G40 Faction in Zanu PF as directed by the Zimbabwe Defence Forces Commander General Chiwenga. 13-11-2017 pic.twitter.com/wqmCKKnjY2 It's sad to see some people on here who think General Chiwenga is offering a viable alternative to the status quo. Following the Press Conference from Chiwenga, only one man is qualified to respond and give an official positionThat man is non other than His Excellency Mugabe will fire his army chief Chiwenga by this week. If the statement from the army boss us anything to go by, we are in the cusp of a coup. The statement allegedly issued by General Chiwenga today poses a serious problem for Mugabe - if true it in essence demands a reversal of the actions Mugabe has put in motion this week. That will entail an unprecedented loss of face and real power. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  