Amanda Khoza Former Zimbabwean vice president Joice Mujuru (Frank Chikowore, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Parliament has welcomed the South African government's and the Southern African Development Community's (SADC) swift response to an apparent coup in Zimbabwe. "We trust that current issues facing the people of Zimbabwe are resolved in a manner which does not undermine, but rather supports ongoing regional co-operation and economic development initiatives," Parliament spokesperson Moloto Mothapo said. FOLLOW - LIVE: Fall from Grace: Mugabe's wife was his weakness News24 reported earlier that Zuma, in his capacity as SADC chair, sent special envoys to Zimbabwe. Mothapo said South Africa's links to Zimbabwe went back to the struggle for freedom, when the two countries fought side by side against colonial and racial oppression. "Since our first non-racial, democratic elections in 1994, which ushered in a new era of Constitutional democracy for our country, we have worked closely at fostering development and co-operation between our Parliament and other parliaments in the SADC Parliamentary Forum." 'Maximum constraint' News24 reported that the Zimbabwean Defence Force had placed President Robert Mugabe under military guard and seized control of the state broadcaster in an apparent coup. In a briefing earlier on Thursday, former Zimbabwean vice president Joice Mujuru told the media she was not aware of a transitional government. ALSO READ: Cabinet supports Zuma's 'intervention' in Zimbabwe situation Mujuru said the only way Zimbabwe could transition was "through free, fair and credible elections". "We are at a time where peace can only be realised through maximum constraint," she said. Mujuru said the period allowed the country to reflect and said it was an opportunity to rebuild the country. "What divides us as a nation is smaller than what binds us," she said.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  