Jenni Evans Noluvo Swelindawo (Facebook) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – The parents of the man accused of kidnapping and killing Noluvo Swelindawo were so severely injured in a brawl with her angry brother that they had to get stitches, the Western Cape High Court heard on Monday. "It so happens he could not get at the accused and started delivering sustained blows at the accused's mother," submitted Advocate Sheriff Mohamed, for car washer Sigcine Mdani, who was arrested for Noluvo's kidnap and murder last December. "She (Mdani's mother) had to be hospitalised," said Mohamed, adding that she had injuries to her breasts and still battles with mobility in one arm. Without giving details, he said both she and her husband required stitches after the confrontation. "This is what is going to come out," said Mohamed. Claims of fight between deceased, accused Noluvo's body was found dumped at a footbridge in Driftsands, near Khayelitsha, on December 4, 2016. She had been shot dead. The court has already heard from investigating officer detective Simphiwe Thubeni that before her death the deceased had been sharing a shack with her brothers Bonga and Lwazi in Sophakama, an informal settlement near the area where her body was discovered. Thubeni said Bonga told him that a few days before Noluvo died she had been in a fight with Mdani at a party. She had let her brother know that she was not going to work because her face was swollen after the fight. Her brother, who had been having drinks at an end-of-year stokvel function, marched over to the Mdani's home, also in Sophakama, to ask him what had happened. Mdani was not home, but a fight broke out between Bonga and Mdani's parents, and neighbours had to break it up. When Mdani arrived, he allegedly pulled a knife out of the kitchen drawer and stabbed Bonga in the face. The extent of his injuries was not immediately clear. Sexuality suspected to have been a factor Thubeni said Bonga was arrested for the injuries inflicted on Mdani's parents. He said he had not been aware that these charges had been withdrawn, as stated by Mohamed, because he was not the investigator in that matter which occurred before Noluvo's death. The court has heard that after those two fights, Mdani allegedly burst into the Noluvo 's home and ordered "Vovo", as Noluvo was affectionately known, to come with him. Noluvo's girlfriend, Nqabisa Mkatali, had been staying over to reassure a rattled Noluvo after all the trouble of the previous week. The court previously heard that Mkatali had hidden in a gap between the bed and the shack's wall on that day, but recognised Mdani from chatting to him at the car wash. He was arrested and charged with murder, kidnap and housebreaking and has pleaded not guilty. There were fears within the LGBTI community that Noluvo's death may have been sparked by her sexuality as a lesbian, and the case is being monitored by representatives of the Triangle Project. The trial continues. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  