The National Sea Rescue Institute’s (NSRI) Hout Bay crew on duty on Sunday were called out to help following reports of a drowning in progress at the boat slipway at Hout Bay harbour, which is next to the Hout Bay NSRI base. Members of Community Crime Prevention (CCP) were already en route to the scene when the NSRI rescue swimmers and medics ­responded.  Police officers, provincial health’s EMS and Life Healthcare response paramedics also came to help. Lyall Pingle, NSRI Hout Bay station commander, says on their arrival they found that CCP members were already on the scene and working. They had rescued a 60-year-old local man from the water who had been found floating face down in the water next to the jetty. They had also started CPR. “The man had been spotted by fishermen who were returning from fishing.  “They were recovering their boats when they noticed the man jumping off the jetty into the water and disappearing under water and they raised the alarm.  “Our NSRI medics continued CPR with the CCP members and provincial health EMS and Life Healthcare response paramedics arrived and extensive CPR efforts continued. “A heartbeat was restored but then failed again and CPR was continued,” he says. Pingle says the man was transported by EMS ambulance to hospital while EMS and Life Healthcare paramedics, assisted by NSRI medics, continued with CPR in the ambulance. At hospital CPR efforts were continued by hospital staff but after all these efforts to resuscitate the man failed, the doctors declared him dead. “It is suspected that the man died from a fatal drowning.  “Condolences are conveyed to family and friends. “We thank all who assisted on the scene and at the hospital, including the community medics, Hout Bay’s Watchcon and EMS metro control who assisted in getting medical resources to the scene,” says Pingle. In a separate incident on Saturday a short while after noon, NSRI Hout Bay medics responded to the Hout Bay craft market where members of the public appealed for assistance after a 67-year-old Johannesburg woman collapsed ­unconscious. “NSRI duty crew were at the NSRI base at the time conducting routine exercises and responded. On their arrival on the scene a woman was stabilised by our medics and then transported to hospital in a stable condition by Netcare 911 ambulance.” It was suspected that she had collapsed after suffering a stroke.  “Provincial health EMS and Netcare 911 ambulance services also responded,” says Pingle. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  