Emmerson Mnangagwa (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – A report on
Thursday said that "a deal has been proposed that former vice president Emmerson
Mnangagwa should lead a transitional government that will be constituted of
stakeholders from other political parties" in Zimbabwe. According to SABC, President
Robert Mugabe had been given an opportunity to negotiate an exit that included
state protection together with his family.  "One of the
priorities of the transitional government will be to restore the economy that
has experienced decline in recent times," the report said. Meanwhile, NewsDay reported that the
country's Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader Morgan Tsvangirai
and war veterans leader Christopher Mutsvangwa had flown back home from
South Africa on Wednesday.  Both Tsvangirai and Mutsvangwa were "ready
to enter negotiations to form a transitional government with former vice
president Emmerson Mnangagwa", the report said. 'Criminals around Mugabe'  Tsvangirai and Mutsvangwa had both been in South Africa on
different missions, the report said. The Zimbabwe
Defence Forces (ZDF) on Wednesday announced that it had taken over the country
and was keeping the country's president Mugabe and his family under
guard at his home as the military was getting rid of the "criminals around
Mugabe". On Monday the ZDF warned the
93-year-old leader that it would intervene if he continued purging party
veterans in a bid to see his wife, Grace Mugabe, become his successor. The takeover, which has largely
been described as a coup, also saw the arrest of several ministers and members
of the so-called "Generation 40" group within the ruling party. According
to a report by SABC, “a deal has been proposed that former vice president
Emmerson Mnangagwa should lead a transitional government that will be
constituted of stakeholders from other political parties”.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  