BREAKING: Sacked Zimbabwe VP in exile, vows to defy Mugabe Harare - Zimbabwe's sacked vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa said on Wednesday he had fled the country as he issued a direct challenge to long-ruling President Robert Mugabe and his wife Grace. The ruling Zanu-PF "is not personal property of you and your wife to do as you please," Mnangagwa said in an angry five-page statement, vowing he would return to Zimbabwe to lead party members. "This is now a party controlled by undisciplined, egotistical and self-serving minnows who derive their power not from the people and party but from only two individuals in the form of the First Family," he said. Read more on this story here  Mugabe says fired deputy plotted via witchcraft Harare - Zimbabwe's president said on Wednesday he fired his deputy and longtime ally for scheming to take power, including by consulting witch doctors. President Robert Mugabe spoke publicly for the first time since dismissing Emmerson Mnangagwa, who had been seen as Mugabe's potential successor. Now Mugabe's wife appears poised for the role. The 93-year-old Mugabe told thousands of cheering supporters that Mnangagwa had plotted to take over since becoming a vice president in 2014. Read more on this story here  LATEST: Zimbabwe war vets 'expel' Mugabe as their leader Harare - Zimbabwe's War Veterans Association says it has expelled President Robert Mugabe as its leader and has formed a revolutionary council to take over the ruling Zanu-PF party. "We have completely disowned Mugabe," says the statement issued on Wednesday in Johannesburg by war veterans leader Chris Mutsvangwa. The association of former fighters for independence is loyal to fired vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa, who says he has left Zimbabwe after threats. Mugabe accuses his former deputy of plotting to take power, which Mnangagwa denies. For more on this story click here  WATCH: Mugabe son pours champagne over his 'expensive watch' as he parties in Sandton Harare - A video has emerged of President Robert Mugabe's youngest son, Bellarmine Chatunga, pouring champagne over his 'expensive watch' while his brother and other friends party. Music blares in the background, and there is a short glimpse of Mugabe’s other son, Robert Junior with his arm draped around a young woman, apparently at a night club or bar in Sandton, where the brothers are currently based.  Then the video turns to Bellarmine and another unidentified person pouring champagne from a bottle of Armand de Brignac gold over their watches. Read more on this story here  'Military coup can't be ruled out in Zim,' says ex-home affairs minister Harare – Zimbabwe's former home affairs minister, now the leader of the opposition Zapu party, Dumiso Dabengwa, has reportedly said that a military coup "cannot be ruled out" in the country following the sacking of former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. According to VOA, Dabengwa said that it was likely that most Zimbabweans could back this move "as they are tired of President Robert Mugabe's rule". Dabengwa said this at the launch of the Dumiso Dabengwa Foundation in Bulawayo. Read more on this story here  5 children killed when bomb explodes at Tanzania school Dodoma - An official says at least five children have been killed and 24 others injured in a bomb explosion at a primary school in Tanzania. The blast occurred on Wednesday inside the compound of Kihinga primary school. Kagera Regional Police Commander Augustine Orome says a child had picked up the device thinking it was scrap metal. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  