Tariro Washinyira  Mandisa Dyantyi, Deputy General Secretary of the Social Justice Coalition, addresses protesters outside Parliament. (Ashraf Hendricks, GroundUp) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - About 100 protesters marched to Parliament on Wednesday to demand more equal policing. Members of the Social Justice Coalition (SJC), Equal Education and the Nyanga Community Police Forum handed over letters addressed to members of the parliamentary portfolio committee of police, according to a GroundUp report. They also handed over nine black files of court papers to Irvin Kinnes, the content adviser of the portfolio committee. One of the MPs who received a letter, Francois Beukman (ANC), said: "We welcome the visit today to Parliament by civil society groups. We will have a special meeting in February, looking at the issue of police resources to ensure that it is properly done. "Next week in court we will follow all processes in relation to SAPS and resource management. We have engaged with SAPS on the budget process because we can’t have a situation where people in townships are given a second-hand service". The demonstrators sang and danced and wore white T-shirts which read: "We demand a fair allocation of police resources and quality police resources for all". Placards read: "We the people demand open, accountable governance … protect human rights". Cardboard boxes painted red and blue demonstrated the disparities in murders and the allocation of police. Red boxes represented murders and blue boxes represented the allocation of police. Cardboard boxes painted red and blue demonstrate the disparities in murders (red) and the allocation of police (blue). (Ashraf Hendricks, GroundUp) Dalli Weyers of the SJC also stacked cardboard boxes, painted red and blue, to demonstrate the disparities in crime and resources. Red boxes represented murders and blue represented resource allocation. He told GroundUp that white middle-class suburbs with limited violent crime were prioritised over predominantly black, poor, working-class communities with high levels of violent crime when it came to the allocation of police. Mandisa Dyantyi, SJC deputy general secretary, told the protesters: "We have suburbs like Claremont and Bishopscourt that have lots of police resources. But areas like Kraaifontein and Nyanga, which have high murder cases, are under resourced. It is unjust that I get robbed in a taxi in Khayelitsha". Dyantyi said that, on March 31, 2016, the SJC, Equal Education and the Nyanga Community Police Forum filed papers in the Equality Court to compel the Minister of Police and the National police commissioner to revise the system governing the allocation of the police’s 194 605 personnel to the 1 144 police stations across the country. After numerous delays the matter will be heard from November 28 to 30 in Cape Town.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  