Odinga says Kenya election 'must not stand' Nairobi - Kenya's opposition
leader Raila Odinga vowed on Tuesday not to accept a "sham" election,
declaring he would push for a fresh vote through a campaign of civil
disobedience and peaceful protest. He did not indicate whether
he would file suit again at the country's paramount court to have the election
annulled. In his first reaction since
his rival Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the winner of last Thursday's
presidential ballot, Odinga denounced the vote that he had boycotted as a
"charade." Read more on this story here  Mugabe's food security doctorate 'is a thoroughly ill'
and 'not funny joke' Harare – Zimbabwe's opposition, the Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC) party has described as "thoroughly ill", the
granting of an honorary doctorate in agricultural Sciences to President Robert Mugabe by
the Lupane State University (LSU), says a report. According to New
Zimbabwe.com, the MDC said that the LSU's honour of the veteran leader
was "not a funny joke". The conferment, the report said, was done at the
university's 8th graduation ceremony on Friday in Lupane.  For more on this story click here  Rhodesians must 'come back and rebuild Zimbabwe', war
vets say Harare – Zimbabwe's former freedom fighters have
reportedly called on Rhodesians "scattered across the world" to come
back and rebuild the southern African country. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the Zimbabwe National Liberation
War Veterans Association (ZNLWVA) said that the current government led by
President Robert
Mugabe had failed. "We want them (Rhodesians) to be part of the next
governance in Zimbabwe because this country has been run on a scotched earth
policy by the G40. We want it to recover and for us to build a new
country," ZNLWVA’s chairperson Chris Mutsvangwa was quoted as saying. For more on this story click here  Morocco holds regional meeting on migration Skhirat - Morocco is hosting a regional meeting on
migration aiming at developing an African agenda on the issue. The three-day meeting gathers representatives of
African states, the United Nations, the African Union, NGOs and academics. Moroccan Minister of Foreign Affairs Nasser Bourita
said during the opening speech on Monday that the set of informal sessions aims
to "open the dialogue between the diplomat and the civil society, the
researcher." Read more on this story here  Kenyan man arrested over Australian wife's murder
released Nairobi - A Kenyan court has released a man whom police
had called the prime suspect in the murder of his estranged Australian wife. Cyrus Bernard Maina Njuguna and his cousin John Njuguna
Waithira had been in custody for a week after being arrested in connection with
Gabrielle Maina's murder. Police had detained the men for seven days to complete
investigations. For more on this story click here  Liberia's Sirleaf hits back at vote 'interference'
claims Monrovia - Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf on
Monday hit back at claims by her own vice-president that she had interfered in
the election to choose her successor by meeting polling officials at her
residence. Vice-President Joseph Boakai came runner-up to former
international footballer George Weah in the October 10 presidential election,
triggering a runoff round as neither man won a majority of the votes. The ruling Unity Party, backing Boakai, said on Sunday
it would join two other parties in lodging complaints with the National
Elections Commission (NEC) over what it termed Sirleaf's "interference
with the electoral process", along with other issues of "massive
systematic irregularities and fraud". For more on this story click here In US, 'both Mugabe, Tsvangirai wouldn't be allowed to
contest' Harare – Zimbabwe's presidential hopeful Nkosana Moyo
has reportedly dismissed both President Robert Mugabe and
his long-time challenger Morgan
Tsvangirai as unfit to contest the 2018 presidential elections. According to New
Zimbabwe.com, Moyo said this while speaking to young people in Harare,
months after launching his presidential bid.  The Alliance for People's Agenda (APA) candidate said
that both Mugabe and Tsvangirai should by now have exited the political scene
due to their health problems.   Read more on this story here          24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  