Grace Mugabe 'was prepared to kill for women's league post', says Mnangagwa ally Harare – Ex-Zanu-PF party women's boss Oppah Muchinguri has spilt the beans, saying she feared being killed after she was pressured by a lot of people to give up the powerful women’s league position to former first lady Grace Mugabe, says a report. According to New Zimbabwe.com, speaking at a Zanu-PF provincial co-ordinating committee meeting in Mutare, Machinguri claimed that she gave up the post after she realised that the ex-first lady unleashed "thugs" on her. Muchinguri – a President  Emmerson Mnangagwaally – said that Grace also obtained a dubious PhD in preparation for her new role. Read more on this story here  Zimbabwe's new leader issues ultimatum for externalised funds Harare - Zimbabwe's new president on Tuesday gave a three-month ultimatum for the return of funds siphoned out of the country by individuals and corporations, as he moves to stem graft and revive the moribund economy. "The government of Zimbabwe is gazetting a three-month moratorium within which those involved in the malpractice can bring back the funds and assets, with no questions being asked or charges preferred against them," Emmerson Mnangagwa said in a statement. The amnesty period will run from December 1. For more on this story click here  In Zimbabwe, missing activist's family still holds out hope Harare -  The wife of a missing Zimbabwean activist who was abducted by suspected state agents in 2015 after urging then-President Robert Mugabe to resign said on Tuesday that she hopes the country's new leader will shed light on what happened to her husband. President Emmerson Mnangagwa, a close ally of Mugabe for decades, can prove he is different from his predecessor by resolving the case of Itai Dzamara, one of the few activists at the time who was regularly protesting in the streets for the ouster of the longtime ruler, Sheffra Dzamara said. "I hope the new president will do something," she said in an interview with The Associated Press at her home in Harare, the Zimbabwean capital. "Even if they've killed him, I just want his body so that we have closure." For more on this story click here  Kenyatta sworn in after months of tension in Kenya Nairobi - Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in as president of Kenya on Tuesday following two disputed polls and waves of deadly protests. Here are the key developments in the divisive election drama: Tensions on voting day  Voters turn out in large numbers on August 8 after a tight race between Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, his longtime rival. Many fear a repeat of the violence that after the 2007 election left more than 1 100 people dead. For more on this story click here  Zimbabwe's new president dissolves Mugabe cabinet Harare - Zimbabwe's president Emmerson Mnangagwa three days after his inauguration has dissolved the cabinet of his predecessor Robert Mugabe, who resigned after the military took control of the country, a senior government official said on Monday. Mnangagwa "is in the process of putting together a new team of cabinet ministers", Misheck Sibanda, the chief secretary to the president and cabinet said in a statement. Sibanda added that Mnangagwa has appointed Patrick Chinamasa as acting finance minister and Simbarashe Mumbengegwi as acting top diplomat "to allow uninterrupted services in critical ministries of government." Read more on this story here  Kenya's Kenyatta to start disputed second term Nairobi - Kenya's Uhuru Kenyatta is due to be sworn in for a second term on Tuesday, an inauguration delayed by two disputed polls and a series of sometimes deadly street protests. At the same time, opposition leader Raila Odinga has promised to hold a "memorial rally" honouring the more than 50 people killed, mostly by police, in four months of political upheaval that has left the country deeply divided. Around 13 mostly African heads of state are expected to attend the ceremony at a Nairobi stadium where Kenyatta, 56, will be sworn in for his second and final five-year term. read more on this story here   Macron kicks off Africa tour in Burkina Faso Ouagadougou - French President Emmanuel Macron landed in Burkina Faso on Monday evening for the opening leg of a three-day Africa tour aimed at boosting France's regional influence and stemming the continent's migrant exodus. Macron's first African tour takes him to Burkina Faso and Ivory Coast, two former French colonies that deposed strongmen leaders in recent years, as well as to Ghana. "This is a new stage for our relationship with your country and the whole continent," the 39-year-old French leader told reporters shortly after being greeted by his Burkinese counterpart Roch Marc Christian Kabore. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  