Cape Town - As an eerie calm lingers in Zimbabwe with President Robert Mugabe’s reign challenged, in South Africa the DA is pressing on with calls for a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, while AfriForum has announced another private prosecution. Have a look at these leading stories: Mugabe must resign immediately - Tsvangirai Zimbabwe's opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai says it is in the interest of the country's citizens if President Robert Mugabe to resigns immediately. Full story                                                      Morgan Tsvangirai. (News24) Mujuru 'unaware' of transitional govt talks for Zimbabwe Former vice president of Zimbabwe Joice Mujuru, who has called for free, fair and credible elections, says she is unaware of talks about a transitional government. More 'Welcome to a new Zimbabwe' - optimism on the streets of Harare As the Zimbabwean military entered the streets of Harare this week, citizens were overcome with a sense of fear and trepidation. Read African Union head denounces Zimbabwe 'coup' The head of the African Union has said that the body "will never accept the military coup d'etat" in Zimbabwe. Click here Zimbabwe leader Robert Mugabe seemed invincible but era ends Robert Mugabe seemed untouchable for most of his long rule as he crushed dissent or sidelined opponents, and now the apparent end of his era is launching Zimbabwe into the unknown. Full story Follow News24's live updates on the unfolding situation in Zimbabwe 'Be patient,' Ramaphosa tells Maimane on state capture inquiry Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has told DA leader Mmusi Maimane to "be patient", while the courts decide on whether President Jacob Zuma should appoint a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. Paul Herman filed this report Wellington fire: Broken bone in Sunita’s neck 'more important than report' Even though there weren’t any signs of drugs, medication, poison or chemical substances in the bodies of Jacques and Sunita van Dyk, a broken bone in Sunita’s neck could be a telling piece of evidence. Find out more Train robbery hero learning to walk again, sights set on Paralympics Left with a disability after trying to stop a train robbery, Darryn August, a man who never backs down from a challenge, now has his sights set on emerging victorious on a different platform - the Paralympic Games. Read RWC 2023: Rugby Africa voted against SA!As South Africa comes to terms that they won't be hosting the 2023 Rugby World Cup, the news that Rugby Africa's own two votes went to eventual winners, France, is an extra bitter pill to swallow.  Sport24 has more AfriForum to prosecute Nomgcobo Jiba AfriForum has instituted legal action to privately prosecute Advocate Nomgcobo Jiba on charges of fraud and perjury. Full story It's 'business as usual' at SABC, says DA after Rachel Kalidass resigns The DA fears that it is "business as usual" at the SABC after it was revealed that the preferred candidate to become the broadcaster's group CEO had been accused of fraud and corruption in the past, and the subsequent resignation of one of the new SABC board members. More Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  