Boipelo Mere The burglars apparently used the kitchen window to enter the building at the Emmanuel High School and cut a hole in the ceiling to make their way to the principal’s office. 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     What was described as a most successful fundraising event on Saturday (04/11), ended in tragedy for a Kimberley-based school, the Emmanuel High School, which disgusted the community of Homevale. After the fundraising, the staff of the school packed up and locked away the event’s proceeds into their strongroom, only to later find it hacked open by burglars and the proceeds stolen. The incident is suspected to have happened on Sunday (05/11) around 02:00 while the night shift security guard at the school was on duty. The school staff and learners were traumatised and disappointed, as this was their first ever fundraising event that was targeted. “We were crying after putting in all our effort toward the success of this event. It is so discouraging as this is a new school premises that we have been using for two years, that the criminals damaged,” said one of the staff members. “I just wonder what method of safety can give criminals no access, as we thought our security system was spot-on.” It is believed that the burglars gained entry through the kitchen window, where the glass was broken and the burglar bars cut. The burglars apparently then cut a hole through the ceiling to make their way towards the principal’s office, where they disconnected and destroyed the CCTV camera installation, and then proceeded to cut open the steel door to the strongroom. The smaller safes and the petty cash tin was also cut open to remove the cash. According to the staff, they had patted themselves on the back for a job well done before they locked away the undisclosed amount of money into the smaller safes. What puzzles them, is the fact that the security staff did not detect anything wrong. They apparently also did not even hear the noise when the safes were cut open with what they suspect to be a grinder. The school is still doing an analysis of what else was stolen apart from the cash, and also laptops and a video game console that was one of the ten prices for the raffle. “We still have to hold a meeting to find a way forward as to how we are going to deal with the issue of the raffle prizes, which is one huge mess for us.” The school pleads to anyone within the community to come forth with any information regarding the burglarly that can lead to the arrest of the perpetrators, and even offers a reward in exchange of useful information. The case is being investigated by the police. By the time of going to press, Express Northern Cape did not receive any comment from the police.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  