
        Zimbabwe is tense as the army has taken over Zimbabwe's ZBC state broadcaster and detained senior politicians, including President Robert Mugabe. Follow Live updates.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Let's not forget how SA aided and abetted #Mugabe through the horrendous "quiet diplomacy" and turning a blind eye to torture of activists. I cannot, for the life of me, fathom why any reasonable person would welcome military rule and its consequences such as martial law. Be careful not to let the genie out of the bottle. Parliament is there. Mobilise it to protect the Constitution. Companies on alert, SA bank brings some staff home #Zimbabwe Companies are being vigilant over their operations in Zimbabwe after 
military vehicles descended on the capital of Harare and the army seized
 power, threatening President Robert Mugabe’s 37-year rule. pple are calm & celebrant. Bitcoin is going wild in Zimbabwe Bitcoin climbed as much as 10% on Zimbabwe’s Golix exchange on Wednesday after the country’s armed forces seized power. LATEST: Zimbabwe war vets group wants Mugabe recalled The head of Zimbabwe's influential war veterans association says they stand with the army and that President Robert Mugabe should be recalled as president and ruling party leader. I can confirm that flights in and out of #Zimbabwe are operating per normal. Air Zimbabwe took off for Bulawayo this morning and the SAA flight from Harare landed a while ago . The top 6 players in #Zimbabwe right now pic.twitter.com/36IOS79OaC What's happening in #Zimbabwe are effects of allowing the military to drink into the cup of power & partake in the table of politics pic.twitter.com/5H5GYdY3TR Its business as usual in #Bulawayo, the second largest city in #Zimbabwe. People are going on about their business despite tensions in #Harare. #263chat @ZiFMStereo pic.twitter.com/0kCGPONjdz Commander of the Defence Forces, Constantine Chiwenga Monday breathed fire calling for an end to “purging” and... https://t.co/wLv6QWAWpG JUST IN: Zim state radio resumes some of its normal programming Zimbabwe's state radio resumed some of its normal programming
shortly after noon on Wednesday. If you don't know what a Coup d'état is, watch what's currently happening in #Zimbabwe. You'll get a practical example. So Congrats to the  #Zimbabwe army for the bloodless coupe , they have the people of zimbabwe and there progress at heart Zimbabwe is SA's 5th biggest trading partner

 

 150 SA companies operating in Zimbabwe

 Once the army tastes power, it cannot be undone. History will remind you. #Zimbabwe War Veterans presser https://t.co/JPMLgQmSjF The war veterans  commend the Job done by CDF and his colleagues Youths are encouraged to support state institutions says Matemadanda adding that the youths are not an arm of the government We urge all political parties to support the transition to a better #Zimbabwe says Matemadanda Mugabe must be recalled from his duty as President and 1st Secretary of Zanu PF said Matemadanda adding that it is not the first time they have done so on N. Sithole Chipanga must be brought to book says Matemadanda The ZDF should make sure that there is no loss of life during the transition, but should decisively suppress agent provocateurs who will try to undermine the long overdue transition. #Zimbabwe The EFF appreciates that some of the pain caused in Zimbabwe was due to imperialist actions, but a significant component of this was self-inflicted. President Mugabe cannot insist on remaining in power even when he is physically incapable of doing so.#Zimbabwe China: Zimbabwe army chief visit 'normal military exchange' A visit to Beijing last week by Zimbabwean army commander General 
Constantino Chiwenga, who appears to have taken control of the country, 
was a "normal military exchange," China's Foreign Ministry said on 
Wednesday. 
                Jump to
                top
            