Caryn Dolley Handcuffs. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Two more suspects have been arrested in connection with the murder of Brian Wainstein, also known as the international Steroid King, who was shot dead in his Constantia home earlier this year. Wainstein was killed shortly after midnight on August 18 in what appeared to be a targeted hit at his home. He was murdered while in the same room with his wife and child. Neither of them were wounded in the attack. READ: International 'Steroid King' shot dead in Cape Town home in possible hit The two suspects were arrested on Saturday. In October Fabian Cupido, 39, was also arrested in connection with Wainstein’s murder. This was after he was detained following an alleged attempted attack at a Cape Town hospital where alleged Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen was admitted after he was wounded in a shooting at Cape Town International Airport. READ: 'Fight' at hospital where wounded Jerome 'Donkie' Booysen is admitted Sources with close knowledge of the matter had said the suspect was dressed as a woman and had targeted another man with close ties to Booysen outside the hospital. One source had insisted the incident was an attempted hit on the man linked to Booysen. Booysen was wounded in the Cape Town International Airport on October 18. A second man was also wounded in this shooting. It was the third attempt on Booysen's life in roughly six months.  READ: Cape Town airport shooting another attempted hit on suspected gang leader Jerome 'Donkie' Booysen The two suspects arrested in connection with the Wainstein murder, aged 27 and 31 years, were detained on Saturday. On Sunday Western Cape Hawks spokesperson Captain Lloyd Ramovha said that at the time of the murder, Wainstein’s wife had said that earlier that evening that two men had visited requesting to speak to him. Later that evening, according to Ramovha, "she was apparently woken up by sounds of gunshots and realised that her husband was wounded on the chest". "Wainstein was declared dead on the scene. The gunmen allegedly took three cell phones before they fled the scene,” he said. News24 understands that one of the two was detained previously this year for allegedly being in possession of prohibited firearms and ammunition This previous arrest was allegedly linked to a group of men who in April had gathered outside a Sea Point fast food establishment and had planned to head to clubs to intimidate owners of establishments. The duo are expected in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Monday. A new group of men, headed by controversial businessman Nafiz Modack, has this year been taking control of nightclub security from a more established group. For a detailed breakdown of underworld activities in the Western Cape visit News24's Underworld Showcase here. Wainstein was linked to one of the groupings associated with nightclub security. He had gone by several aliases including Brian Benjamin, and was arrested in Cape Town in 2013. Wainstein reportedly had South African and Israeli citizenship. An August 2014 court document on the matter said the US government wanted him extradited on various criminal charges relating to "the illegal importation and marketing of various drugs, including anabolic steroids, in the United States". It was not immediately clear what had become of this matter. Weinstein was at one stage on Interpol's wanted list. He was wanted in Cyprus for drug-related crimes. News24 spotted Wainstein at a popular Cape Town eatery late in 2016. He had been seen with some figures with links to underworld activities. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  