Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters. (Yolanda van der Stoep) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Official photos of Prince Harry and his fiancé are released after their engagement; There is hope for Springboks in the 2019 world cup says Duane Vermeulen and Gordhan hits back over 'poo protest'.  Here are today’s top stories: Eskom's Khoza denies ever meeting Bongo Eskom’s interim chairperson Zethembe Khoza said he “rejects with contempt” claims that he ordered State Security Minister Bongani Bongo to offer a bribe to Ntuthuzelo Vanara, the evidence leader of Parliament’s Eskom inquiry, to collapse the investigation. Fin24 has more here. Water cuts loom for defaulting municipalities - minister No mercy will be shown to 30 municipalities owing the Department of Water and Sanitation R10.7bn, Minister of Water and Sanitation Nomvula Mokonyane has warned. Read here. Gordhan hits back over 'poo protest' and other disruptions Former finance minister Pravin Gordhan has denounced the behaviour of a large crowd of people who interrupted him and threw sewage outside a venue in KwaDukuza, north of Durban, where he was supposed to deliver a speech. Read more here. Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters speaks on sexual harassment Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters didn't shy away when asked to comment on sexual harassment just after being crowned. Read more on Channel24 here. Congratulations to Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters, the winner of the 2017 #MissUniverse competition! pic.twitter.com/JYuQYc3Lvo  PICS: Newly engaged Prince Harry and Meghan Markle make their first appearance To celebrate their engagement, Kensington Palace have released the first official photos of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. See here. Mugabe 'knew it was the end of the road days before he quit', says mediator The Catholic priest who mediated talks leading to the ouster of Zimbabwe's former President Robert Mugabe says the leader knew it was "the end of the road" days before he quit, and appeared relieved when he signed his resignation letter after 37 years in power. More here. SA's new top cop vows to serve with honour, courage Newly appointed national police commissioner General Khehla Sitole has vowed to serve the country with honour and courage. Watch here. Dashcam footage emerges of Bedfordview shootout A shootout between seven suspects and a SAPS provincial task team took place on Van Buuren Rd in Bedfordview last Wednesday. Watch the video here. What turns some children into criminals? A look into the effects of emotional trauma Sizwe comes from Zonkiziziwe, in Katlehong, where poverty, social injustice and unemployment are rife, undoubtedly contributing to the crime epidemic in the area. Of course, Sizwe's actions may also be a condition of youth – teenagers are known to take risks. Read the feature here. Duane: There's hope for Boks ahead of 2019 RWC Springbok No 8 Duane Vermeulen says there is hope for the Springboks to achieve success at the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan. Sport24 has more here. Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  