US citizen held in Zimbabwe, accused of insulting Mugabe on Twitter Harare - Lawyers and a US embassy official say Zimbabwe police have arrested a United States citizen for allegedly insulting President Robert Mugabe on Twitter. Embassy spokesperson David McGuire tells The Associated Press that police picked up Martha O'Donovan on Friday. O'Donovan's lawyer, Obey Shava, says police have not yet charged her but they claim that "tweets emanating from her IT address are insulting to the president." Read more on this story here Why are you sympathising with the white man?, Mugabe's
Zanu-PF youths ask as they grab a dairy farm Chinhoyi – Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe’s ruling
Zanu-PF party activists reportedly invaded a white-owned commercial dairy farm
just outside Chinhoyi town on Wednesday, as land seizures spread across the
country ahead of next year’s general elections. Mugabe, who was seeking re-election in polls due in
2018, urged
his supporters in June to grab all the few remaining white-owned commercial
farms in the countryside to pave way for Zimbabweans who did not
have access to land. Following the 93 year-old leader’s directive, a new wave of
invasions was reported in most parts of the country, including the grabbing of
southern Africa’s largest agricultural research institutes, Blackfordy Estates,
located just outside the capital Harare. Read more on this story here  Kenya's contentious electoral amendments pass into law Nairobi - A controversial set of amendments to Kenya's
electoral act became law on Thursday, just days after a divisive presidential
poll boycotted by the opposition. The amendments, condemned by the opposition as well as
Kenya's foreign allies, were automatically gazetted after President-elect Uhuru
Kenyatta failed to sign the bill within 14 days or send it back to parliament. Lawmakers from Kenyatta's Jubilee Party introduced the
amendments after the Supreme Court annulled an August 8 election due to
"irregularities and illegalities" and mismanagement by the
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). For more on this story click here  Zambia president
Lungu warns judges not to follow Kenya's lead Lusaka - President Edgar Lungu has warned Zambia's judges
against blocking him from running in 2021 elections, saying a judicial
intervention like that in Kenya could plunge the country into chaos. Lungu is expected to contest the 2021 race but may face a
legal challenge from opposition parties which claim it would be unconstitutional
as he has already served two terms - the maximum permitted by law. "Don't become a copycat and think that you are a hero
if you plunge this country into chaos," Lungu told supporters at an event
in Solwezi, north west of Zambia, that was broadcast on state radio late on
Thursday. For more on this story click here  One killed, two hurt in Morocco tourist town shooting Rabat - One man was shot dead and two others were hurt in a
tourist area of Marrakesh, authorities in Morocco said, adding that it appeared
to be a local settling of scores. Two attackers wearing balaclavas shot the victim at a cafe
in the town, a popular destination for foreign visitors. The man, who was hit
in the head, died instantly. The two assailants also injured two other people in a hail
of bullets before they fled on a motorbike, local authorities said. Initial investigations indicate that the dead man was
specifically targeted, authorities said. Read more on this story here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  