Cape Town - Murder accused Henri van Breda continues his testimony in the Western Cape High Court, Kevin Spacey faced fresh allegations of sexual harassment and have a look at some of our favourite comments on the Driving Miss Caroline video.  Here are some of our top stories:  #ZumaQandA: Laughs and screams as MPs demand answers President Jacob Zuma's last quarterly question session for the year in the National Assembly became slightly heated, despite the EFF boycotting the sitting, with the DA staging a walkout before MPs hurled insults at one another. Get all the details                             (Parliament of the Republic of South Africa/Screengrab via Youtube) Panayiotou, one co-accused found guilty of wife's murder Christopher Panayiotou, accused of murdering his wife, Jayde, along with his co-accused Sinethemba Nenembe, have been found guilty of murder in the Port Elizabeth High Court. The sentencing has been postponed to November 17. Full story Crime scene was 'neat' #VanBreda trial Murder accused Henri van Breda continues his testimony in the Western Cape High Court. Get all the details on News24. Scroll for more Who owns the land? More than 26% of South Africa’s agricultural land is now owned by previously disadvantaged individuals, according to a national land audit by AgriSA. See province by province here  Boks open 2019 RWC campaign against All Blacks The Springboks will kick off their 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan with a blockbuster opening encounter against reigning champions, New Zealand, on Saturday September 21 in the International Stadium in Yokohama. Sport24 has the full story Our favourite comments on the Driving Miss Caroline video A hilarious video of a Cape Town man taking his family's helper for her first driving lesson has gone viral. See some of the comments on our Facebook post of the video. More Life Esidimeni official loses appeal The health ombudsman has dismissed the appeal of one of the Gauteng health officials implicated in the deaths of at least 141 Life Esidimeni patients. Read Kevin Spacey: More allegations of sexual assault surface Kevin Spacey faced fresh allegations of sexual harassment in Britain on Thursday, with an ex-employee accusing his old theatre of turning a blind eye to the Hollywood star's misconduct. Channel24 has the story        Kevin Spacey. (AP) Police missed an opportunity to test their rubber bullets on white skins - Malema EFF leader Julius Malema has launched an attack on #BlackMonday protesters, Afrikaners, as well as the police who, he says, missed an opportunity to test their rubber bullets on the skins of white people. Read Domestic worker allegedly raped by boss is in place of safety   A domestic worker who has allegedly been raped multiple times by her boss, and allegedly forced to perform sexual acts with his dogs, has been left severely traumatised and believes her reputation is tarnished. More Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  