A Moroccan woman filling up containers with water from a hose in Zagora, southeastern Morocco. Experts blame poor choices in agriculture, growing populations and climate change for the water shortages in towns like Zagora, which has seen repeated protests for access to clean water in recent weeks. (Issam Oukhouya, AP File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Marrakech - A stampede erupted while food aid was being distributed in a Moroccan village on Sunday and at least 15 people died and 10 were injured, authorities said. The crush took place in Sidi Boulalam as a local association was handing out food at a local weekly "souk", or market, the Interior Ministry said in a statement. The town is in Essaouira province, which abuts the Atlantic coast southwest of Casablanca. King Mohammed VI has given instructions that "all measures be taken to help the victims and their families", the ministry said. The king will pay for the hospitalisation of the injured and burials of the dead, the statement said. Alyaoum24.com, a reliable local news website, reported that people were rushing for the food aid whose value was about $16 per person. Regional health director Khalid Zenjari told The Associated Press that six of the injured were evacuated to the city of Essaouira, about 60km away, while four were treated locally. Distribution of food aid is common in the North African nation, particularly in remote areas. The handouts are organised by private sponsors and groups as well as by the authorities. Often held once a week in rural areas, souks are usually very busy places. People from nearby villages come to the markets to buy food and others items for the following week. A drought has greatly hurt agricultural output in Morocco recently, contributing to the high cost of basic food items. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  