Armed soldiers stand on the road leading to President Robert Mugabe's office in Harare. (AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabwe's civil society organisations (CSOs) have called for a "clear and implementable road map", as the country's political deadlock after a military takeover on Wednesday continued.  In a joint statement, the CSOs called for a "peaceful and constitutional resolution of the situation and the immediate return of Constitutional order and democracy" The more than 100 groups said that the southern African country's transition should be guided by the constitution and include all political parties and interest groups.  "As civil society we reiterate our position that the political transition in Zimbabwe must be guided by the Constitution and should adhere to all full tenets of democracy enshrined in it that include a multi-party democratic political system. We condemn any actions, attempts and interests to attain state power outside constitutional provisions," said the groups.  This came uncertainty remained in Zimbabwe amid quiet talks to resolve the country's political turmoil and the likely end of President Robert Mugabe's decades-long rule.  Mugabe has been in military custody and there is no sign of the recently fired deputy Emmerson Mnangagwa, who fled the country last week.  But, reports on Thursday suggested that "a deal has been proposed that former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa should lead a transitional government that will be constituted of stakeholders from other political parties" in the country. President Mugabe had been given an opportunity to negotiate an exit that included state protection together with his family. "One of the priorities of the transitional government will be to restore the economy that has experienced decline in recent times," the report said. Opposition parties, mainly the Morgan Tsvangirai led Movement for Democratic Change was reportedly "ready to enter negotiations to form a transitional government with former vice president Mnangagwa." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  