Mxolisi Mngadi Lungisani Mnguni. (Clive Ndou, Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal on Tuesday disputed rumours that one of its members, who was gunned down on Monday, was the only delegate in the Umkhambathini local municipality's Ward 7 expected to attend the party's 54th elective conference in December. Lungisani Mnguni, 34, ANC activist and former Ward 7 branch chairperson, was gunned down in Nkanyezini, Camperdown, while on his way to deliver food on Monday morning. READ:  ANC official gunned down Siphamandla Khumalo, Moses Mabhida Region spokesperson, told News24 on Tuesday that Mnguni was one of "about" five delegates from Ward 7 chosen to travel to the conference to be held in Gauteng. "He was not the only one nominated to represent the ward at the upcoming conference," said Khumalo, dismissing the rumour which had been circulated in media reports. READ:  Final push for ANC branches to nominate leaders as some miss deadline Khumalo said they are still waiting for police to establish the motive for Mnguni's murder. "For now, we as the ANC have not linked Mnguni's murder to anyone. That's not our job. We've left the matter to the law enforcement agencies," he said. He said the ANC could not speculate that Mnguni's murder was politically motivated. "Police must do their job. Once they've found something tangible then the motive for his murder would be known," said Khumalo. Mnguni was accosted by unknown suspects, who fired shots at his moving car.  His vehicle crashed and he managed to get out and move to an embankment where he died, police said.  They said the motive for the killing was unknown. A murder case is being investigated at Camperdown police station. SHAMEFUL ACT Mzi Zuma, ANC secretary in the region, said in a statement on Monday that the ANC was appalled at the "ferocious murder of its activist". He said it appeared that Mnguni, an entrepreneur, was attacked while on his way to make a delivery to a local school, where he had been involved in a food nutrition programme.   Zuma said the ANC called on those who might have witnessed Mnguni's murder to come forward with information as it could help police make an arrest and "ensure a successful prosecution of the perpetrators of this shameful act".  In October last year, KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu established the Moerane Commission to investigate the underlying causes of political killings in the province. READ:  ANC to intervene in 3 'troubled' provinces over branch meetings Some of the witnesses who have testified at the commission have said that greed and competition for positions were some contributing factors. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  