
        The trial of murder accused property mogul Jason Rohde continues in the Western Cape High Court where State pathologist Dr Akmal Coetzee-Khan has returned to the stand  and has come under scrutiny by the defence during cross examination. 
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 ICYMI: Dr Reggie Perumal did a second autopsy at Rohde’s request more than a week after Susan's death. His report suggested her injuries were consistent with ligature strangulation. CK says that in his testimony in chief he said the fractures to Susan #Rohde's ribs could possibly be due to resuscitation attempts. Not in his report @TeamNews24 ICYMI: Mark Thompson, a colleague of murder-accused Jason Rohde, previously testified in court as the State's first witness. Thompson tried to resuscitate his wife Susan at the Spier Wine Farm. He told the court that he saw Susan Rohde's body lying on the bathroom floor and immediately started compressing her chest and blew into her mouth.  He forgot to block her nose. He had never performed CPR before. Jason #Rohde and his colleague Mark Thompson first did CPR on Susan #Rohde when her body was found in bathroom at Spier @TeamNews24 So now we are discussing the injuries that can be sustained by a patient during resuscitation - specifically CPR. The knowledge of people who did CPR on Susan #Rohde was 'what they saw on TV', says defence. @TeamNews24 Defence says Coetzee-Khan is not telling the truth about his findings, given his written notes. "What?" exclaims CK #Rohde. @TeamNews24 CK says he has pics to show that the fourth broken rib was not present at Susan #Rohde's autopsy. Says there is no blood in that area, so it could have broken while she was being taken to Doves in Jhb @TeamNews24 There was no food found in Susan #Rohde's stomach. @TeamNews24 #Rohde resumes. Plus minus 100ml of blood-stained fluid found in Susan #Rohde's stomach. CK says immediately saw blood present and decanted it into a jug to measure it @TeamNews24 Defence says CK is not telling the truth about the sequence of his hand written note-taking in Susan #Rohde autopsy. CK says that is the defence's opinion. Tea break now.@TeamNews24 I will spare you the step by step details of Susan  #Rohde's autopsy, but think CSI @TeamNews24 We are going through a blow by blow of Susan #Rohde's autopsy conducted by CK and forensic assistant (I will get name during break). Jason Rohde is blinking a bit, but is composed. @TeamNews24 CK being quizzed on why the CAS number for Susan #Rohde was only logged in to the computer at 7.04pm.  CK says they get preliminary number then later it gets put on the computer. Defence is looking for slip ups in process by the look of things @TeamNews24 I remember from listening to previous cases that the hyoid bone is in the neck at the back of the tongue and its condition is often used in detecting strangulation @TeamNews24 Rohde's defence says CK told Perumal Susan had a fractured hyoid bone during the courtesy call.  CK strongly denies saying this as he is quizzed on Perumal's finding that her hyoid bone was not fractured. #Rohde's lawyer says Perumal called CK as a courtesy and invited him to attend second autopsy on Susan #Rohde at Doves in Johannesburg. CK denies being invited @TeamNews24 CK confirms he was contacted by forensic pathologist Dr  Klepp on behalf of Jason #Rohde's defence. CK told her that he thought it was not consistent with hanging and that he was considering manual strangulation.@TeamNews24 CK said that whenever you have a case of suspected strangulation, must always check whether ligature found on scene matches ligature mark found on the skin of the deceased.  In Susan Rohde's case it did not. Coetzee-Khan is confirming that he found what he considered to be some unusual factors on Susan #Rohde's body after her death when he did the autopsy on 26 July. Susan died on 24 July 2016 at Spier @TeamNews24 ICYMI: The State pathologist, who examined Susan Rohde's body following her death in July 2016, previously admitted to the Western Cape High Court under cross-examination that he made a mistake in calculating her time of death. Under cross-examination by defence attorney Graham van der Spuy, a nervous Dr Akmal Coetzee-Khan said he used the cooling of body temperature to estimate that Susan passed away at 05:40 on July 24, 2016, with 95% accuracy. Using this technique, Coetzee-Khan calculated that Susan passed away somewhere between 02:00 and 08:00 that day, and used the mean time as her time of death. Van der Spuy said Coetzee-Khan's statement that his calculated time of death is 95% accurate was a lie.  Re Coetzee-Khan's (CK) letter of appointment, CK says only CEO can hand over annexures to his appointment, such as acceptance, performance details. Prosecutor Louis Van Niekerk says he has some documents. @TeamNews24 #Rohde's defence advocate Graham vd Spuy opens with a request for email communications he had wanted, and some info relating to Coetzee-Khan's letter of appointment @TeamNews24 The #Rohde trial resumes with pathologist Dr Akmal Coetzee-Khan sworn in again. He last testified Thurs 19 Oct 2017 then was booked off for a while @TeamNews24 Prosecutor Louis van Niekerk ahead of Jason #Rohde's trial @TeamNews24 
                Jump to
                top
            