President Jacob Zuma. (File, Fin24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Here are some of the top stories from City Press on Sunday, November 12. - See more on the City Press homepage. #FeesMustFall: Zuma goes for broke President Jacob Zuma plans to redirect state funds to find R40 billion to pay for free higher education. A national institute entrusted with producing more black professors has become the first casualty of these plans, as its budget has been cut by R35.6m.  Although City Press has published the contents of the Heher Commission report on the feasibility of no-fee higher education, Zuma is yet to publicly release its findings and announce a course of action. He says the report is still "under consideration".  The main finding of the Heher report was that free education was not feasible, but Zuma is determined to announce no fees for students, even if it is for only one year. - Read the lead story  Dubious R877 000 bonus for SABC boss The SABC has had to cramble to explain the discrepancy between a whopping R877 000 bonus for its acting group CEO Nomsa Philiso and the reason she claimed to have received the money. The bonus prompted questions in Parliament, but the public broadcaster was adamant that she earned it through sheer hard work. The SABC’s latest annual report revealed that Philiso earned a total of R3.37m in the year ended March 2016. This included bonuses and commissions to the tune of R877 000. This while she was one of the public broadcaster’s salespeople – long before she became its head honcho. - See the story here  Sars hunts 49 cent debt A dumbfounded taxpayer is knocked by the taxman for an outstanding amount of 49 cents. And ordinary taxpayers are subjected to more tax audits, while the taxman takes longer to make repayments. Tax practitioners who spoke to City Press say it is clear that every cent counts for Sars, which will miss its tax collection target by an estimated R50bn this year. - Read all about it Battle for Qunu  Qunu chief says Winnie Madikizela-Mandela has no claim to the land on which Nelson Mandela’s grave is located https://t.co/87ZxazVDxC pic.twitter.com/9ZNindqBn1  How Brian Molefe was imposed on Eskom The parliamentary inquiry into the power utility has revealed how the Eskom board, led by Ben Ngubane, pushed for Brian Molefe’s permanent appointment to the top job just two months into his secondment to the post. While the erstwhile Eskom boss is fighting to clear his name, questions have been raised about the legality of his permanent appointment to the power utility in September 2015. City Press has learnt that the board pushed for the appointment, even going as far as seeking legal opinion to justify why it could appoint Molefe without considering other candidates. - Full story DA's dirty fights  DA’s internal polls indicate the party could govern Gauteng in 2019, but must first overcome dirty battles being waged among factions ahead of next week’s congress https://t.co/X3GAYfypze pic.twitter.com/IyRSq1PWQE  Mondli Makhanya: Populism is a losing game This is a lesson the populist camp in the ANC’s leadership race should well be aware of. They have been running around the country promising the people that if their vision of radical economic transformation is implemented, all their problems will vanish at the speed it takes to make instant noodle soup. What we learn from history – distant and contemporary – is that it is a bad idea to raise expectations. There will always be a chunk of the population whose hopes will be raised. And in that group there will be those willing to act on broken promises. Should their ticket win in the ANC elective conference in December, the populists will be faced with the impossible task of trying to fulfil these impossible promises on the back of a tanking economy. - Read the full column Baxter: I won't fall on my sword  Stuart Baxter: I’m not going to hang myself or fall on my sword because we didn’t qualify. That would be absolute lunacy https://t.co/RtYtP3Us4V #BafanaBafana pic.twitter.com/u8rGsifsZE  Insecure Jay's Cape Town trip Jay Ellis, who stars in comedy drama Insecure, has been in Cape Town filming the psychological thriller The Maze. Fans have spotted the actor around Cape Town for the last three months. He’s been learning some isiXhosa and isiZulu in street or on-set lessons and shares the details on his Instagram account.  - Read the story  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  