Kaveel Singh iStock 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pietermartizburg - The Msunduzi municipality has appealed to members of the public to help police find the killers of the bodyguard of the municipality's speaker Jabu Ngubo. Mhlabunzima Mngoma was shot and killed in a hail of bullets on Wednesday. Msunduzi spokesperson Thobeka Mafumbatha said many in the municipality were saddened by Mngoma's sudden passing. "He was a very dedicated and professional employee who will always be remembered. At this moment of hardship to his family and kin, we convey our prayers. We dip our banners in salute of this employee." READ: KZN municipal speaker's bodyguard killed While urging calm, she pleaded with the public to help in the arrest of Mngoma's killers. "We would like to appeal to the public to work with the police and offer any information they might have that would lead to the arrest of the perpetrators. We call upon the people of Pietermaritzburg to pray and support the family and his friends during this period." Attempts to reach Ngubo on Thursday were unsuccessful. Mngoma, 30, was killed when multiple gunshots were fired at him as he was travelling in a municipal vehicle in Caluza, near Pietermaritzburg, on Wednesday, police said. Motive unknown When asked if Mngoma had any enemies that would want him dead, Mafumbatha said: "At the moment we do not want to speculate. We do not know what could have caused this." He said it was cruel of Mngoma's killers to have taken the life of someone so young. Following the shooting, Mngoma was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead. Police said that the motive for the killing was unknown. No arrests have been made. More than 40 people have been killed in politically motivated shootings in KwaZulu-Natal since 2016, according to community rights activist Vanessa Burger. In September, former ANC Youth League secretary general Sindiso Magaqa died at the Albert Luthuli Hospital from gunshot wounds he sustained in a suspected ambush in July. He was the fourth political official to die in the Umzimkhulu municipality this year. Political analysts who testified at the Moerane Commission into political killings said most deaths were related to competition over political positions. The commission, set up by KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu, is investigating the underlying causes of political killings in KwaZulu-Natal from 2011 onward. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  