The DA makes its presence felt by campaigning in Metsimaholo, Sasolburg where 21 wards are at stake during Wednesday's by-elections. Picture: Simon Mathebula 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A convoy of ANC-branded bakkies drove around the Metsimaholo Local Municipality in Sasolburg in the Free State, yesterday, and men with loudhailers appealed to residents to vote for the ANC and not waste their ballots on the SA Communist Party (SACP). The ANC deployed the same bakkies across the country ahead of last year’s local government elections as it tried to woo voters. A few metres away from the ANC convoy, members of the SACP nonchalantly chanted “asiyifuni i-agenda yama capitali [we don’t want the capitalist’ agenda]” and “did you hear the good news, Zuma is going”. A short drive away, DA members were elated as the voice of their leader Mmusi Maimane reverberated across the packed Harry Gwala Multipurpose Sports Complex in Zamdela as he explained the party’s idea of “a new beginning” for Metsimaholo. Dressed in a Madiba-style blue and white shirt, Maimane said: “Dis ’n groot gemors, ons is gatvol [this is a big mess, we have had enough]. “The ANC is dead, man! We need a municipality without corruption.  "We are tired of our children having to roam the streets selling their bodies just to make it through that day, we have to say enough is enough,” Maimane said as he listed the ills the community was grappling with, including a high rate of unemployment. The DA is expected to clinch six out of the 21 wards in contestation; the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) is betting on winning eight; and the SACP is expected to win about four wards. The EFF set up on the other side of the township with music blaring from a big truck. Residents will vote on Wednesday in the municipality’s by-election. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  