The wreckage of the vehicle in which four youths died.PHOTO: supplied 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     FOUR Umvoti families are mourning the tragic loss of their sons in a car accident on Saturday afternoon on the Muden-Greytown road near the Mooi River turn-off. Two of the boys, 17-year-old Nhlanhla Msane and 17-year-old Ngcebo Mthembu were Grade 11 pupils at Greytown Secondary School, 12-year-old Siyanda Msane was a Grade 7 pupil at Eshane Primary School. At this stage it is not confirmed whether 19-year-old Lindo Ximba, who allegedly was driving, was attending a school. The youth were travelling towards Greytown when the driver apparently lost control. Skid marks could be seen where the car swerved off the road, hit a small thorn tree, rolled several times, leaving a trail of cars parts, before coming to a stop about 100 metres down from the road. Three of the teens were thrown out and died on impact – the fourth was rushed to hospital, but died several hours later. According to reports from witnesses, the car had been travelling at a high speed and could have been racing another car - police state that they are not able to confirm this.  It is alleged the vehicle belonged to a family member and had been taken without permission - also at this stage it has not been confirmed whether Ximba had a driver’s licence. Family and friends are devastated at the death of these four youngsters. Siyanda’s father, whose brother Nhlanhla also died in the crash, said the four had been friends. The four had been popular and were much loved family members said Bongani Msane. The four families are taking strain at their tragic loss. This is the third loss of a Greytown Secondary School pupil in the past two weeks - Grade 9 pupil Ntokozo Mbambo drowned in Lake Merthley on October 15.  Headmaster Mr K. Maharaj said pupils were traumatised by these sudden deaths - the school had held a minute of silence at an assembly on Monday and the choir had sung in memory of the pupils. The Department of Education announced it will be visiting the schools concerned and provide counselling as required. At the time of going to press no arrangements had yet been announced for the funerals of the four. It is alleged the vehicle belonged to a family member and had been taken without permission 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  