Mxolisi Mngadi SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – Two police officers have been shot and wounded in Inanda, north of Durban, on Friday morning, while another was killed in Eshowe on Wednesday, KwaZulu-Natal police said. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said police were conducting a crime prevention operation in the early hours of Friday when they spotted a Toyota Tazz with seven men in it.  "When police approached the vehicle they came under fire. Two police officers were wounded and taken to hospital for treatment. They are in a serious but stable condition," he said.  The suspects fled the scene. Their bloodstained vehicle was later found abandoned in Phoenix, said Zwane.  "Two counts of attempted murder have been opened at Inanda police station for further investigation," said Zwane.  In another incident, a police officer was shot and killed in Mbongolwane near Eshowe, northern KwaZulu-Natal, on Wednesday. Officer's pistol, rifle stolen "Constable Jabulani Mavundla, who was stationed at Mbongolwane police station, was on duty with his colleague when they attended to a complaint of robbery at Maqhogo area. On their way back to the station, it is alleged that they were ambushed by criminals who opened fire on them," said Zwane.  Mavundla was shot and lost control of the vehicle which then hit the trees nearby, he said.  "He died at the scene. His colleague was taken to hospital for treatment. The suspects stole Mavundla's service pistol and rifle before they fled the scene," Zwane said.  Charges of murder, attempted murder and robbery were opened at Mbongolwane police station for further investigation.  Acting provincial commissioner Major General Bheki Langa condemned Mavundla's killing.  "This is totally unacceptable and we will not rest until the perpetrators are brought to book. I have tasked the provincial organised crime unit to investigate this case and ensure that those involved are arrested. I wish to convey my sincere condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of Constable Mavundla who died as a hero protecting his community," he said. Langa appealed to the community to assist police by providing information that would lead to the arrest of the suspects.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  