Caryn Dolley (File, Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – The head of a security company and a former bouncer have both appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court in separate cases apparently linked to underworld activities. Grant Veroni, of the company Skhosana Maponyane Hall Phillips and Khumalo, trading as The Security Group (TSG), which has twice before been the target of police and Hawks operations, appeared in the court on Monday on an illegal possession of a firearm charge. Shortly afterwards, Hussain Ait Taleb, a martial arts expert better known in bouncer circles as Hussain Moroccan, appeared in the same courtroom on a murder conspiracy charge. Taleb was previously involved with TSG. When Veroni, who was most recently arrested on Saturday, November 11, was in the dock it emerged he wanted to be released on bail. However, the state opposed this. Bruce Hendricks, who heads law firm Hassen-Harmse Attorneys, which was representing Veroni along with David Mbazwana of Liddell Weeber & Van Der Merwe, said he was ready to proceed with a bail application. READ: Hawks arrest 2 in 'underworld' security firearms case He said Veroni had one pending matter stemming from a Bellville case relating to fraud. Veroni was previously released on R3 000 bail in this matter. "He handed himself over to the Hawks and assisted with the investigation," Hendricks said. Despite pushing for a bail application to proceed and for his client's release, the matter was postponed to December. Urgent application After Veroni's appearance, Hendricks said he planned to approach the Western Cape High Court in order to try and apply for an urgent application to see Veroni's bail application proceed. Taleb, who was arrested in October, appeared in the same dock as Veroni on Monday. He also planned to apply for bail. However, this was rolled over until later this week. Taleb was therefore also kept in custody. A week ago both Veroni and Taleb had appeared in the same dock for the respective cases. Controversial businessman Nafiz Modack had been present for Veroni's appearance last week. Afterwards a vehicle in which he was travelling in was searched by police outside the court. READ: 'Underworld' search outside court after gun case heard Earlier this year a new grouping headed by Modack started taking control of nightclub security in Cape Town from a more established grouping. Several violent incidents and shootings have played out since the start of the takeover. For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld, see News24's showcase: Underworld Unmasked  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  