The Zimbabwe Solidarity Forum (ZSF-SA) held a media briefing at the Parktonia Hotel in Braamfontein on Wednesday to discuss the political developments in Zimbabwe following the resignation of Robert Mugabe on Tuesday. WATCH Cape Town – A picture of former Zimbabwean president Robert
Mugabe, 93, and his wife Grace - purported to have been taken just before the nonagenarian signed his
resignation letter on Tuesday - has gone viral on social media. This is the first picture that has emerged since Mugabe stepped down. The picture shows Mugabe and his wife with the veteran leader's "friends", including the country's former reserve bank governor Gideon Gono. Grace looks "humbled".  Writes social media user @mtyala: “Grace looks like she hasn’t slept in
days, the arrogance wiped from her face. What’s “stress” in Shona? See the picture and the reaction from various social media users below.  A report by AP on Thursday said that Mugabe had not been seen outside a few photographs since his stunning speech to the nation on Sunday night in which he defied calls to step down. Mugabe was said to remain in the capital, Harare, with his wife but it was not clear under what terms. Some were wondering whether he had secured guarantees of protection, including immunity from prosecution, the report said.
 Longtime deputy Emmerson Mnangagwa, fired by Mugabe earlier this month, was set to be sworn in on Friday after making a triumphant return to the country. He greeted a cheering crowd on Wednesday night. First picture of the Mugabe’s emerge after Robert Mugabe was forced out of office on Tuesday. Grace looks like she hasn’t slept in days, the arrogance wiped from her face. What’s “stress” in Shona? ?? pic.twitter.com/xwwhOhZ62h Former Zimbabwean dictator Robert Mugabe and his wife Grace, first photo in retirement after being disposed by the military. Like all other dictators, Mugabe may now have to spend and later die in exile.@DanielKanyerezi @DavyLubz @cnnbrk @BBCBreaking @wmosest @nbstv pic.twitter.com/yv5s9oQ3Vn The final moment. Before signing his resignation letter, he summoned his real friends, including Gono, once upon a time accused of being Grace's secret lover.Then it was done.Look at the file next to Mugabe.Very sad picture. A very sad end. pic.twitter.com/9fmCpjKCnl Moments before Resignation, Grace looking “humbled” Former Reserve Bank Governor Gono almost in tears! People get drunk on power! Mugabe had been ruling for 37 years but still too sad to go!!! Unbelievable #MugabeResignation pic.twitter.com/CCYpfNEndS 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  