
        During cross examination, defence advocate Pete Mihalik read text messages between murder accused Jason Rohde and his wife Susan in court as evidence that she was showing warning signs of suicide.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 #Rohde case postponed to tomorrow for psychologist to check messages between Susan and Jason @TeamNews24 Therapist says if Susan #Rohde had spoken about wanting to kill herself in her rooms, she would have been very concerned. Adjournment now for lunch @TeamNews24 Susan texted to Jason that he had been with gf Jolene Alterskye for 302 days. Susan texted also: Now for 72 days I have felt like dying''. @TeamNews24 ''I have to beg u to go places with you, i have to beg u to be with u.'' Text from Susan to Jason @TeamNews24 ICYMI: A previous witness of the State, Warrant Officer Mias Engelbrecht, told the court that he had extracted 25 000 pages of data from cellphones belonging to Susan, her husband and his mistress, estate agent Jolene Alterskye. The witness told the court that his analysis revealed messages between handsets belonging to Susan Rohde and Alterskye from 05:50 on July 24 – the day that Susan’s body was found. Psych is only splash of colour in the court. She is wearing a rainbow coloured shawl, purple top. @TeamNews24 What is serotonin? Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that controls emotions, therefore a low level of serotonin may be the cause of depression or anxiety. Psych says Mihalik would also have to look at Generalised Anxiety Disorder because many of those same symptoms also occur in GAD @TeamNews24 Mihalik says Susan Rohde also showed feelings of being sad, empty.  Newcombe is standing her ground and fighting back. Says must diagnose if mild, moderate, severe. Defence says Susan #Rohde displayed loss of weight, agitation, sadness, insomnia, reoccurring thoughts of death @TeamNews24 Defence reading depression symptoms from DSM-5, which is like a dictionary of psychiatric illnesses. Says Susan Rohde showed 5 symptoms. Mihalik has just accused Susan #Rohde's psych of being negligent for not checking that mix of symptoms and her meds could cause suicide @TeamNews24 Psych said Susan #Rohde's weight loss was sign of anxiety. @TeamNews24 Pls note, not clear to me if Susan #Rohde had ADHD. Just propositions being put to psych by defence @TeamNews24 Susan #Rohde was a perfectionist, concerned about what others thought about her and her family. Never told psych she had ADHD, did not see symptoms @TeamNews24 Psych saw Susan #Rohde at 8:30 appointment and she never smelled of alcohol @TeamNews24 Pyschologist said much of Susan Rohde's demeanour was a response to Jason's infidelity.  She was helping her recover a sense of self and stability. Mihalik said therapist should have been on high alert with Susan #Rohde, should have contacted her GP re meds, and contacted a psychiatrist @TeamNews24 Jason #Rohde does not flinch during the cross examination. @TeamNews24 Susan #Rohde was anti-smoking but started, sent incessant volumes of WhatsApps to Jason, was tracking his every move @TeamNews24 ICYMI: A Valentine's Day card hidden in murder-accused Jason Rohde's suitcase turned his wife Susan's life upside down, her psychologist testified at the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday. "I am currently battling to cope with that," said Susan Rohde, in a personal history form her psychologist Jane Newcombe asked her to fill in.  Susan told personal psych that the couples counsellor incident was more about her feeling out of control. Psych said never contacted Couples ther. @TeamNews24 Psychologist says if marriage counsellor had been concerned regarding suicidal thoughts, she would've been concerned too. Yesterday we heard that couples' therapist wanted to admit her. Mihalik is asking whether Susan would have had a better chance of knowing she was depressed, given her BA in psychology. @TeamNews24 Defence asks if anxiety is directly related to suicide. Per se anxiety on its own does not indicate suicide. #Rohde Helplessness, yes @TeamNews24 Now psych is explaining ''suicidal ideation". Eg: someone says keep thinking of crashing car on highway barrier. If find searches on their google, indicates suicidal contemplation #Rohde Psch says Susan #Rohde was for the most part coherent. Her verbal and non-verbal cues were congruent. Never raised her voice. Spoke with passion @TeamNews24 ICYMI: On July 23, 2016, the day before Susan was found dead in the Spier hotel bathroom, Susan and Jason exchanged a series of increasingly angry messages with Susan calling Jason "devious" and saying at one point: "You are going to die today and so is she." Psych says she was taken by surprise when she heard about Susan's message to Jason that him and his girlfriend were going to die @TeamNews24 Susan #Rohde had not arrived for scheduled appointment, so started worrying @TeamNews24 Protective factors that would have prevented Susan #Rohde from being suicidal was her community volunteer work, says psych. @TeamNews24 ICYMI: Susan Rohde showed warning signs of suicide - defence The team representing property mogul Jason Rohde, accused of killing his wife Susan, claim that they have evidence to prove that she showed warning signs of suicide. During extensive cross examination of psychologist Jane Newcombe in the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday, defence advocate Pete Mihalik said that he would produce evidence on Wednesday to show that Susan was unhappier than the psychologist had made out in her testimony. Newcombe testified earlier about individual therapy sessions she had with Susan. The court heard that Rohde had been having an affair with estate agent Jolene Alterskye and managing the impact of that affair made Susan anxious. ICYMI: Susan Rohde's psychologist shocked by her 'suicide' There was no indication that Susan Rohde was suicidal, her psychologist testified in the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday where her husband Jason is being accused of her murder. "I am saying, quite categorically, that I did not experience Susan as suicidal," Jane Newcombe told Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe. Susan was found dead in a room at the Spier Wine Farm in Stellenbosch, hanging off the back of the door of their suite's bathroom on the morning of July 24, 2016. At first, suicide was thought to be the cause of death, but this opinion later changed and her husband Jason was charged with her murder. He has pleaded not guilty. 
                Jump to
                top
            