
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabwe's war veterans have reportedly approached the
High Court seeking an order declaring the intervention by the defence forces as
a lawful and justified action meant to defend constitutionalism. According to a state-owned Herald newspaper, the war veterans
said that the Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) realised that President Robert
Mugabe had been captured by his wife Grace and her Generation 40 (G40) gang. This was "to an extent that he (Mugabe) was no longer able to
exercise his functions before moving in to protect the nation by weeding out the
criminal elements that had positioned themselves around the head of State", the
war veterans said. Failure
by the President to make key decisions, allowing his wife and the G40 to embark
on serious purges in the ruling Zanu-PF had the effect of destabilising the
country.  To that
end, the liberators said, "ZDF rightly intervened with corrective measures in
the best interest of the president and the nation at large in terms of Section
212 of the Constitution of Zimbabwe". A New Zimbabwe report said that in the application, the war veterans
were the applicant while Mugabe was the first respondent. The Minister of Defence Sydney Sekeremai and the attorney general were cited as the third and
fourth respondent. This came as reports on Monday said that ousted Zimbabwean vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa was in contact with Mugabe
and would return to the country soon. This was said the army chief in a
televised statement. "The security services are encouraged by new
developments which include contact between the president and the former vice
president comrade Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa who is expected in the country
shortly. Thereafter the nation will be advised of the outcome of talks between
the two," said army chief general Constantino Chiwenga. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  