
        Emmerson Mnangagwa appears well-placed to return to a leading role in Zimbabwe following the army's takeover in response to President Robert Mugabe's sacking of the former vice president.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Godfrey Mwanza, Absa Asset
Management's head of pan-African listed equities, said in a statement on
Wednesday afternoon that, sentiment from commentaters and analysts hints at
positive "relief" that going forward economic policy might be anything
but what has become "normal" in Zimbabwe and that this is the turning
point observers have been waiting for.

 
 Zimbabwe’s economy relies on
commodity exports (primarily platinum), public sector spending (primarily civil
servant salaries) and diaspora remittances (5% of gross domestic product).

 
 Absa Asset Management's fund
has no exposure to Zimbabwe.  Early this year as it saw the economic situation
in Zimbabwe deteriorate, it took a decision to exit the Zimbabwe Stock
Exchange.

 
 "The fact that it will
not take much (for Zimbabwe's economy) to grow from this very low level,
creates a temptation to believe that any change to the status quo is positive.
 We are more sceptical of this given how little we know about the economic
policy leaning of whichever administration emerges from the current
evolution," said Mwanza. - Fin24 UK urges restraint in Zimbabwe, voices cautious hope Britain on Wednesday urged all sides in Zimbabwe to refrain from violence after the military took control of the country, but said it was "potentially a moment of hope". "We have all seen what has been taking place in Harare. We are monitoring those developments very carefully," Prime Minister Theresa May told MPs.  "The situation is still fluid, and we would urge restraint on all sides because we want to see and we would call for an avoidance of violence." She said the primary concern of Britain, the formal colonial power, was for the safety of about 20 000 of its nationals who live in Zimbabwe. The government changed its travel advice on Wednesday, urging Britons in Harare "to remain safely at home or in their accommodation until the situation becomes clearer". Zimbabwe's military is in control of the country and President Robert Mugabe, in a conversation reported by South African President Jacob Zuma, has said he is under house arrest.  But generals have denied staging a coup.Answering an urgent question on the situation in the House of Commons, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson urged caution in predicting how the situation will unfold. "We do not know whether this marks the downfall of Mugabe or not, and we call for calm and restraint," he said.But he added: "I think this is potentially a moment of hope.  Lots of people in this country will be looking at it in that sense. "We must make sure we don't jump the gun, that we aren't premature, and that's why I've been cautious with the House today." Johnson said he would be talking to the deputy president of South Africa later Wednesday about the response of the international community. He said he is also going to a European Union and African Union (AU) summit later this month, where Zimbabwe was now likely to be a priority. "All Britain has ever wanted for Zimbabweans is to be able to decide their own future in free and fair elections," he said. "Mugabe's consuming ambition was always to deny them this right. "Britain has always wanted the Zimbabwean people to be masters of their fate and for any political change to be peaceful, lawful and constitutional." Mugabe was once heralded as a liberator who rid the former British colony Rhodesia of white minority rule, but was soon cast in the role of a despot who crushed political dissent and ruined the economy. - AFP SA must offer Mugabe political asylum, says EFF The EFF has thrown its weight behind the military in troubled Zimbabwe by calling for a peaceful transition of power and for South Africa to offer President Robert Mugabe political asylum. "President Mugabe cannot insist on remaining in power even when he is physically incapable of doing so," said the firebrand political party in a statement. Mugabe's era is ending as Zimbabwean military seizes power Zimbabwe’s military has seized power and detained 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe in a struggle over the succession of the only leader the nation has ever known. Mugabe told President Jacob Zuma by phone that he’s being confined to his home and is fine, the South African presidency said in a statement. Is Mnangagwa Zimbabwe's leader in waiting? Emmerson Mnangagwa appears well-placed to return to a leading role in Zimbabwe following the army's takeover in response to President Robert Mugabe's sacking of the former vice president.  Nicknamed "Ngwena" (The Crocodile) because of his fearsome power and ruthlessness, the 75-year-old has a reputation for taking no prisoners.
 He appeared to have been outfoxed by Grace Mugabe, who is 41 years younger than her husband, after she apparently convinced the veteran head of state to ditch his long-serving minister.
 But following the army's dramatic seizure of power and reports that Mnanagagwa has left South Africa where he has been since his dismissal, Mnangagwa could be preparing to return to Zimbabwe and assume a leadership role.
 "I think the army are in negotiations with Mugabe and Mnangagwa," Derek Matyszak, an analyst at the Pretoria-based Institute for Security Studies, told AFP.  "The easiest way to present a veneer of legality is that Mugabe reappoints Mnangagwa as vice president, briefly -- Mugabe then retires."
 Under Zimbabwe's constitution, the first vice president would automatically become acting president for 90 days.

Matyszak suggested that in that time, ZANU-PF would agree on a new party leader who would also become president "which would undoubtedly be Mnangagwa".
 In the early days after independence from Britain in 1980, Mugabe made Mnangagwa, who was then a young trainee lawyer, minister for national security.  Since then Mnangagwa occupied a host of cabinet positions - but relations between him and his political mentor have not always been cosy, and the younger man is no stranger to presidential purges.  Following his removal last week, Mnangagwa issued a searing five-page condemnation of Grace's ambition and Mugabe's leadership style.
 In 2004 he lost his post as the secretary for administration in the ruling ZANU-PF party after being accused of openly angling for the post of vice president.
 Four years in the political wilderness followed, during which his then rival Joice Mujuru became vice president and the favourite to succeed Mugabe.  She was ultimately deposed following a campaign orchestrated by Grace Mugabe who convinced the president she was not to be trusted.
 Political comeback The 2008 elections, when he was made Mugabe's chief election agent, changed Mnangagwa's fortunes.

 Mugabe lost the first round, but his supporters were not going to make the same mistake in the second round, which was marred by violence, intimidation and allegations of vote rigging.
 In the same year Mnangagwa took over as head of the Joint Operations Command, a committee of security chiefs which has been accused by rights groups of organising violent campaigns to crush dissent.
 He was targeted by EU and US sanctions imposed on Mugabe and his close allies over the elections and violence, but promptly given control of the powerful defence ministry.
 It was a return to the home that made him a force in Zimbabwean politics in the first place.
 Anti-colonial fighter Born in the southwestern Zvishavana district on September 15, 1942, he completed his early education in Zimbabwe before his family relocated to neighbouring Zambia.
 His grandfather was a traditional leader and his father a political agitator for the repeal of colonial laws that disadvantaged blacks.
 In 1966, Mnangagwa joined the struggle for independence from Britain, becoming one of the young combatants who helped direct the war after undergoing training in China and Egypt.
 He was arrested and sentenced to death but his sentence was later commuted to 10 years in prison because of his young age.
 'Destroy and kill' After independence in 1980, he directed a crackdown on opposition supporters that claimed thousands of lives in the Matabeleland and Midlands provinces.
 He once remarked that he had been taught to "destroy and kill" - although he later claimed to be a born-again Christian.  Takavafira Zhou, a political analyst at Masvingo State University, previously described Mnangagwa as "a hardliner to the core".
 Mnangagwa reputedly has deep pockets should he decide to launch a political comeback.
 A US diplomatic cable published by WikiLeaks in 2008 claimed Mnangagwa had amassed "extraordinary wealth" during Zimbabwe's 1998 intervention in gold- and diamond-rich Democratic Republic of Congo. - AFP My sources in Zimbabwe confirm Grace Mugabe is still at the “Blue Roof” home in Borrowadale, Harare with President Mugabe. #Zimbabwe https://t.co/o1f7O3bdoH Africa is riveted by the overnight drama that has left longtime Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe in military custody. Many across the continent have known no other leader of the once-prosperous southern African nation but the 93-year-old Mugabe, the world's oldest head of state.  Here is a look at his more than three decades in power. 1980: Mugabe named prime minister after independence elections 1982: Military action begins in Matabeleland against perceived uprising; government is accused of killing thousands of civilians 1987: Mugabe changes constitution and becomes president 1994: Mugabe receives honorary British knighthood 2000: Land seizures of white-owned farms begin; Western donors cut off aid 2005: United States calls Zimbabwe an "outpost of tyranny" 2008: Mugabe and opposition candidate Morgan Tsvangirayi agree to share power after contested election; Britain's Queen Elizabeth II annuls Mugabe's honorary knighthood 2011: Prime Minister Tsvangirayi declares power-sharing a failure amid violence 2013: Mugabe wins seventh term; opposition alleges election fraud 2016: #ThisFlag protest movement emerges; independence war veterans turn on Mugabe, calling him "dictatorial" 2017: Mugabe begins campaigning for 2018 elections Nov. 6: Mugabe fires deputy Emmerson Mnangagwa, appearing to position first lady Grace Mugabe for vice president post Nov. 15: Army announces it has Mugabe and his wife in custody as military appears to take control - AP A former Zimbabwe finance minister and current activist says of President Robert Mugabe: "The old man should be allowed to rest." Tendai Biti spoke to South African broadcaster eNCA as the 93-year-old Mugabe was said to be in army custody after an unprecedented public rift with the military. Zimbabweans are hoping that whatever happens next will occur without bloodshed. Biti says that Mugabe is a "very intelligent man who must know the die is cast". - AP Britain on Wednesday urged all sides in Zimbabwe to refrain from violence and said the situation was "very fluid" after the military took control of the country". At the moment it's very fluid and it's hard to say exactly how this will turn out," Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said ahead of a formal statement in parliament. Britain, the former colonial power, also changed its travel advice for Zimbabwe on Wednesday. It called on Britons in the country "to remain safely at home or in their accommodation until the situation becomes clearer". "I think the most important point to make is that everybody wants to see a stable and successful Zimbabwe. "I think we are really appealing for everybody to refrain from violence. That's the crucial thing," Johnson said. Britain's acting ambassador to Zimbabwe Simon Thomas said in a video statement that "any British nationals who are here in Harare, either living or working or visiting, is to stay at home, stay in your hotel room, wait until things settle down a little bit." Zimbabwe's military was in control of the country on Wednesday as Mugabe said he was under house arrest, although generals denied staging a coup. Mugabe's decades-long grip on power appeared to be fading as military vehicles blocked roads outside the parliament in Harare and senior soldiers delivered a late-night television address to the nation. Mugabe was once heralded as a liberator who rid the former British colony Rhodesia of white minority rule but was soon cast in the role of a despot who crushed political dissent and ruined the economy. - AFP My sources in Zimbabwe confirm Grace Mugabe is still at the “Blue Roof” home in Borrowadale, Harare with President Mugabe. #Zimbabwe https://t.co/o1f7O3bdoH I was detained at Harare International customs, questioned, and I have been denied entry. I did not advertise my impeccable journalistic credentials, but there it is. I am now watching Beat The Price in the police tea room. 
                Jump to
                top
            