Makazole Mapimpi (Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Barry Roux argues Oscar Pistorius had ‘no evil intent’, a huge thunderstorm lights up the Cape Town skies and the State Security Agency wants Jacques Pauw’s book about President Jacob Zuma to be recalled. Here are today’s top stories: State Security Agency says Zuma book must be recalled The State Security Agency (SSA) has sent a cease and desist letter to investigative journalist Jacques Pauw and his publisher over revelations in his new book that it claims are in violation of the Intelligence Services Act. Read more here. Pauw not intimidated by SARS, SSA Investigative journalist Jacques Pauw is not shocked that his latest exposé about President Jacob Zuma's alleged shady dealings is facing court action; only that it took so long, he said. Read his response here. WhatsApp soars to over 5 000 crash reports in SA Over 5 000 crash reports from South Africa have been submitted to outage reporting website Downdetector after Friday's WhatsApp downtime. Read here. Dlulane launches scathing attack on former colleague Former Springbok loose forward Tim Dlulane has launched a scathing attack on one of his former colleagues at the Bulls. Sport24 has more here. The ties that bind: Henri van Breda and that 'Starry Night' Most of his other ties bear stripes and safe colours. This one dazzles with its shades of cobalt blue and yellow. Read the full column here. Sharks confirm Mapimpi signing The Sharks have confirmed the signing of 27-year-old wing Makazole Mapimpi.  Read here. PICS: Thunderstorm lights up Cape Town Cape Town's skies were lit up as a rare thunderstorm passed through the city. See photos here. Racist estate agent Vicki Momberg guilty of 4 counts of crimen injuria Vicki Momberg, the real estate agent whose racist rant at a black police officer was caught on camera was found guilty of four counts of crimen injuria by the Randburg Magistrate's Court. Read here. There was no evil intent - Roux argues in Oscar SCA appeal Judgment has been reserved in the State's appeal to have former athlete Oscar Pistorius' six-year jail sentence for murder increased.  Read more here. Like Joubert Conradie, truth died on #BlackMonday What must one make of the fact that the ANC, South Africa's ruling party that fought a brave and honourable struggle for human rights and equality, did not once mention the name of Joubert Conradie in its strongly-worded statement condemning the #BlackMonday protests? Read more on this opinion here. Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  