Thandi Setokoe THE festive season is fast approaching and water consumption is expected to increase significantly as holidaymakers stream into Nelson Mandela Bay.  With the expected increase in water usage and the continued drought, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has embarked on a programme to provide alternative sources to alleviate the current lack of water. The metro launched the Motherwell Groundwater Collection Point on Monday, which will be providing non-drinkable water for residents and businesses for alternative use such as construction, filling of swimming pools and car washing. Five more boreholes will be opened in other areas shortly. This Motherwell Groundwater Collection Point will provide free water from 8am to 4pm on weekdays.  Executive Mayor Athol Trollip said at the opening of the collection point, “The creation of this borehole facility is further proof that the municipality, under this administration, is forward-thinking and committed to delivering quality service delivery.” The metro is currently declared a water disaster area as dam levels continue to drop.  Nelson Mandela Bay Municipal spokesperson Mthubanzi Mniki emphasised that the borehole water is not for drinking purposes as it has high concentrations of iron and manganese and, therefore, can only be used for non-potable uses.   Mniki, however, encouraged residents to continue with water-saving efforts and to use 60 litres or less per person per day to help ensure longer supply, especially during the upcoming summer season. Mniki pointed that not all municipal pools will be closed during the summer, adding that the pools furthest from the beaches will be opened. The municipality will also use bore hole water to fill those pools. “Water restrictions remain in place and the municipality may be forced to introduce tougher measures to curb high-consumption levels and wastage,” Mniki said. “Little water remains in the dams that supply the Bay residents with water and we now need to stretch our supply to last us until it rains in our catchment areas, which is not forecast to happen for months.”  
 Directions to the Motherwell water point: Drive north on the Addo Road through Motherwell to the entrance of the Motherwell cemetery. Turn right at the entrance, then immediately left. Continue straight, then right turn and drive to the collection point signboard. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  