Kaveel Singh (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban
– The mother of Sisipho Xulu, the 2-year-old who was the first victim of the
Sunday blaze that destroyed dozens of homes at the Foreman's Road settlement in
Clare Estate, Durban, succumbed to her injuries on Tuesday morning, police
spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said. This brings the death toll from the fire to three after
Sisipho's father, Eric Mpanza, died on Monday afternoon, also in hospital. Authorities have yet to release the
mother's name. Read more here: 2-year-old killed, almost 1 000 displaced in Durban fire "Our movement will stand
with the family and the community during this very difficult time. Eric was
from Mozambique and we will do what we can to ensure that his body is returned
home with dignity," Abahlali baseMjondolo head S'bu Zikode said. Zikode said members of the
movement within the community were aiming to help rebuild the area. "We want to organise to
fight future fires together and to work with the fire department, and to
struggle against the oppressive conditions that leave some of us to die in shack
fires while others sleep safely at night." He said fires would stop when
"access to services and decent housing for all" existed. The eThekwini municipality was
expected to foot the bill for the funeral costs of the child and mother, Zikode
said. 933 people
displaced Nearly 1 000 people were
displaced after a massive blaze razed a large part of the settlement in the
early hours of Sunday morning. A fire, the source of which is
yet to be determined, destroyed 70 homes in the settlement, claiming the life
of the child. eThekwini municipality
spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said 933 people had been affected by the fire. "We anticipate the number to
grow as some residents were away for the weekend." Mthethwa said a tent would be
erected as a temporary shelter for residents. A firefighter was assaulted and
two firehoses were vandalised while fire crews battled the blaze on Sunday. Sydenham community policing forum
member Satish Dhupelia said while the fire was being put out on Sunday someone
had hit one of the firemen with a crowbar and "knocked him out". The attack on rescue officials
caused a delay in firefighting. By the time the fire was extinguished, two
children needed to be hospitalised.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  