Paul Herman Cyril Ramaphosa (Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has told DA leader Mmusi Maimane to "be patient", while the courts decide on whether President Jacob Zuma should appoint a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. Ramaphosa appeared in Parliament on Thursday for his last question session of the year. For the second time this term, Maimane asked Ramaphosa in a supplementary question if he would support a judicial commission of inquiry appointed by the Chief Justice. Former public protector Thuli Madonsela recommended in October 2015 that Zuma allow Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng to select the judge to chair a commission of inquiry into state capture. READ: Public Protector does not have powers to dictate to Zuma, court hears "We've addressed this matter over and over again. This matter is now in the courts," an exasperated Ramaphosa remarked. "The courts are deliberating on this matter, and all of us have said almost unanimously, that we would like to see a commission of inquiry appointed." Zuma took Madonsela's State of Capture report on review, which was heard in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria earlier this month. He wants the court to set the report aside. Ramaphosa reminded MPs that Zuma's legal team had promised in court that he would appoint a judicial commission of inquiry if the court instructed it do so. Outcome of court case "Let us hold back with our impatience and allow the courts to decide what should happen," Ramaphosa continued. "Once the courts determine what should happen, it will be all systems go. It's no use hurling out insults. "I know that honourable Maimane may not have the necessary talent of being patient, and now I ask him to be patient and wait for the courts." Zuma committed to setting up the commission of inquiry within 30 days if Madonsela’s report is set aside. The court has yet to set a date for a ruling, following closing arguments on November 1. Later in the session, DA MPs got their chance to preach patience right back to Ramaphosa during an unrelated question. Ramaphosa said he had not understood the logic of one of Maimane's follow up questions. "I am waiting to hear what the honourable member meant by the question," he remarked. "Be patient," DA MPs shouted back sardonically. "Honourable speaker, I'm glad my lessons to the House are being heeded," he returned. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  