Omega Moagi PHOTO: suppliedSelf-made taps source water from the Port Edward Golf Club and Ocean View B&B, who both have boreholes. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories RESIDENTS in Port Edward and surrounds merely sigh and roll their eyes in despair when yet another water leak, burst pipe or water outage happens in their area, they say. This is after what they say are years of struggle with Ugu about these issues. Chairman of the Port Edward Ratepayers’ Association Peter Brereton said on behalf of the Port Edward community that “Ugu does not exist”. “At the moment there is no water again in Port Edward because apparently our reservoir is empty. We have to source water from our own boreholes because Ugu does not exist for us. Brereton said the community sourced water from the local golf course and bought their own water tanks adding­ that he was on his way to purchasing another water tank for the elderly in the area on Tuesday. Ugu spokesperson France Zama said in a press statement that the water outages­ in various areas under Ray Nkonyeni Municipality were due to an unlawful and prolonged withdrawal of labour  by  more  than 100  employees at  the  water  services  department, and  various  contingency  measures had  been  put  in  place  for  affected areas. “This unlawful action by the striking workers has seen a series of unauthorised interference and tampering of our water infrastructure rendering it unable to provide water to most communities,” said Zama. “We have taken stern action as the municipality in ensuring the perpetrators of these acts of sabotage face the might of the law. “And as we continue to engage with our workers in an effort to break the impasse, restoration times for the affected areas at this point is unknown. “However, communities will be kept updated on the latest developments as we are hopeful that we shall break the ensuing standoff,” said Zama. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  