(iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Ayesha Fakie I am tired. I heard the other day on the news about President Jacob Zuma launching this
year's #16DaysofActivism. He said it should extend beyond these 16 days, we
should ensure the safety of women and children throughout the year. Noble
words. So I wondered if he had an awakening (unlikely), if this was just more
political BS (probably), or if he has a special calendar, like so many special
rules for him and him alone. I am so tired of this. Political theatre and campaigns and hashtags. I'm
not tired because we're talking about it; that men are surprised by just how
much women and genderqueer persons face on a daily basis. That, seemingly
suddenly, from Hollywood to politics people are suddenly taking sexual
allegations seriously. No, this is good. What I am tired of is feeling there'll be an inevitable backlash to this
moment in late 2017 where gender-based violence and #believeher and #metoo are
trending. Turning points in feminist progress inevitably results in a violent
backlash from patriarchy. I'm tired of the still-binary thinking that it is only cis-women who
suffer under patriarchy. I am tired of suspecting that the nation's attention
happily focuses on women and children during these 16 days because it is
natural and acceptable for a paternal society to "save the women and
children". I am tired of the systemic nature of gender-based violence and the
nation-state's role in it. I am tired that we still have to have these
campaigns because for some reasons society still isn't ready to accept women,
transpersons (who are women or men, no prefix needed!), genderqueer folk or
anyone outside the gender normative spectrum are people. Patriarchal violence affects everyone. Every person. Not objects, or accessories
to society, men, or families. Not ad hoc afterthoughts. It affects humans. It
affects all of us. It is sexual assault, non-consent, street harassment,
bullying, body-shaming, removal of bodily autonomy, anti-choice, toxic
masculinity, emotional suppression, and calls to 'be a real man'. And so, so
many more. It affects even the cis-gendered, heterosexual man. It affects people
who identify as gay or bisexual, transgendered, queer, femmes, intersex,
asexual, those too feminine, those too masculine, the androgynous, the girly
lesbian, the feminine straight, and the very-masculine gay dude. It demands of
men, in bell hooks's words, a suppression of emotion, and an act of psychic
mutilation that if not carried out will affect their self-esteem. This is patriarchy. This is violence from the state, society, all the
way down to toxic, violent and fragile masculinities, itself something caused
by the harms patriarchy inflicts on us. Even though I work in this field, patriarchy has conditioned me (all of
us, over a lifetime) to think of patriarchal violence as directed at women, and
that gender issues are women's issues. That the binary thinking of gender as
two opposite poles is correct. Gender is a set of socially constructed modes of
being, ever fluid within the bounds dictated by patriarchy for specific social
contexts. Pink used to be the colour for baby boys a century or so ago, after
all, demonstrating how "patriarchy
has no gender". But patriarchal violence doesn't act alone. It has fellow travellers,
even bedfellows. Our national and global system is a hypercapitalist, white
supremacist, violent patriarchy. And, I dare say that in South Africa, even in
2017, we haven't even yet begun to get to grips with its impact when adding the
crime against humanity that apartheid was, which itself was deeply gendered,
leaving us with gendered wounds. This is the heart of intersectionality. This is how we see – on a regular, damning basis – the violent gendered
assaults in our land. How little kids are sexually assaulted in schools by the
teachers we entrust them to; how, when pointing that out, I am called 'radical
and militant' on feminist issues; how women and genderqueer persons are killed
trying to leave abusive relationships; how boys who don't conform to whatever
definition of manhood are victimised; how lesbians suffer 'corrective' rape; how
transphobia is the number one killer of transpersons; how society erases transpersons
and how we force them to erase themselves, fearing for their safety; how black,
queer women face the harshest weapons of patriarchy at the hands of society:
police, courts, social welfare systems, intimate partners, employers. How we
throw around words of blame and shame like uppity, bitchy, bossy, aggressive,
f—t, moffie, whore and its unique, very evocative Afrikaaps equivalent. The so-called leader of the free world in his brash, nativist, gutter
approach has reenergised the venom behind the colloquial for women's anatomy,
declaring it can be grabbed at whim. Its Afrikaaps equivalent, to me, someone
from the Flats, is significantly harsher in the violence it evokes than any
version of the c-word. And that too pervades. Language is important. Not only in the obvious of how to translate these
gender justice terms to meaningful concepts in the rich, nuanced varieties that
shape our nation. But how to demystify it; how to make it something un-foreign.
Because it is. The mistake patriarchy forces us into thinking is that terms, concepts
and language that promote equality is hard work for no reason, or that it is an
elite imposing a secular, academic or Western slant on life that make most
people go "so there's ANOTHER word we can't say now?" Our work shows gender equality and justice are there for the taking. We
cannot, must not cede it to the hateful. From working in black, rural, poor and
marginalised communities to affluent white schools in the southern suburbs, the
response to gender training and gender justice dialogues shows that it is not
something people knee-jerkingly push away. People are interested. Farmworkers, community activists, schoolkids, teachers, youth, and
professionals at work, even religious leaders and some institutions want to
explore gender justice. This reenergises me. I realise despair is a luxury we
cannot afford. And through doing that, we work to make ourselves appreciate the
depth of variety within gender so that we can help build a gender just society
that one day, maybe, we can call reconciled. - Ayesha
Fakie is the Head of Sustained Dialogues at the Institute for Justice &
Reconciliation. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   