Taxi drivers and owners marched to the Union Buildings where a memorandum of grievances, directed to President Jacob Zuma, was handed over. (Alex Mitchley, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - More harrowing details emerge at Life Esidimeni hearings, Ronnie Kasrils’ attempt to prevent Zuma from becoming president and Zimbabwe's sacked vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa has fled the country. Here are today’s top stories.  #TaxiStrike ends with growing call for Zuma to fire Transport Minister Maswanganyi Striking taxi members affiliated to the National Taxi Association brought the CBD in Pretoria to a standstill as it delivered a list of demands to the Presidency, including calling for Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi to be fired. Follow this blog SA could face water shortfall of 17% a year by 2030 By 2030, South Africa’s water deficit could be as high as 38 billion cubic metres per year – representing a shortfall of 17% annually, Trevor Balzer from the Department of Water and Sanitation told Parliament on Wednesday. Fin24 has the full story  Life Esidimeni: Starving woman ate plastic and paper bags The mother of a Life Esidimeni patient who was moved to one of the unlicensed NGOs and died days later said she "nearly died" when she saw her daughter’s body in the mortuary. Read here. DISCUSSION: What will a post-Zuma South Africa look like? News24 politics editor Mahlatse Mahlase, City Press editor Mondli Makhanya and Daily Sun editor Reggie Moalusi discuss the ongoing ANC succession battle.  I asked Mbeki to stand for a third term to stop Zuma - Kasrils Former intelligence minister Ronnie Kasrils says he asked former president Thabo Mbeki to contest for the role of ANC president in the lead up to the party’s Polokwane conference in an attempt to stop President Jacob Zuma from taking over the position. More Rogue cops, rifts and 'dark forces' - the state of SA's policing South Africa's police and security players seem hell-bent on exposing some truth that they're foisting into public view. Or they are intent on tripping each other up. Caryn Dolley wrote this column WATCH: Cupcakes go flying in Harry Styles’ new music video Harry Styles just released a brand new music for his song Kiwi. The video starts off with Rogue One actress Beau Gadsdon, who acts as a mini-Harry, walking down a school hallway dressed in a fancy suit with cupcake-filled Tupperware under her arm. Watch                                             Harry Styles. (Screengrab: HarryStylesVevo) Axed Zim VP flees, but vows to return Zimbabwe's sacked vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa has fled the country as he issued a direct challenge to long-ruling President Robert Mugabe and his wife Grace. The ruling Zanu-PF "is not personal property of you and your wife to do as you please," Mnangagwa wrote in an angry five-page statement, vowing he would return to Zimbabwe to lead party members. Full story Mugabe son pours champagne over his 'expensive watch' as he parties in Sandton A video has emerged of President Robert Mugabe's youngest son, Bellarmine Chatunga, pouring champagne over his 'expensive watch' while his brother and other friends party. Music blares in the background, and there is a short glimpse of Mugabe’s other son, Robert Junior with his arm draped around a young woman, apparently at a night club or bar in Sandton, where the brothers are currently based. Watch The 9 SA golfers flying the SA flag at Sun City The 2017 Nedbank Golf Challenge in Sun City tees off on Thursday at the Gary Player Country Club. The $7.5m tournament is the penultimate event on the European Tour's Race to Dubai. Read more on Sport24 Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  