
        In an exchange in the Western Cape High Court over marks found on the back of Susan Rohde's neck, Jason Rohde's defence and State pathologist Akmal Coetzee-Khan remain in disagreement over the cause of ligature marks.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Defence adv Pete Mihalik says they still want CK's emails to his senior over Susan #Rohde's autopsy. Keep asking for them, but have not got them yet @TeamNews24 Defence says not going to finish by 2.30pm. VDS says he will need another couple of hours in cross examination of CK and to summarise. CK needed elsewhere tomorrow, Judge needs to go at 2.30 @TeamNews24 In an exchange over marks on the back of Susan #Rohde's neck - the defence and the State pathologist disagree over the ligature marks  Perumal says he found on Susan. CK says this was actually caused by Perumal's autopsy on Susan @TeamNews24 Defence in #Rohde trial whizzing through literature on resuscitation injuries, hanging injuries that he wants to put on record. @TeamNews24 ICYMI: A colleague of murder-accused Jason Rohde tried to resuscitate his wife Susan at the Spier Wine Farm. He felt he could not let Rohde and everyone else down so he carried on performing CPR for 30 to 45 minutes. Thompson got excited when blood came out of her nose because he thought her heart was pumping again. The defence believes that the injuries sustained on Susan's body may have been caused by the CPR performed.  Defence telling pathologist CK that literature shows that plastic electrical flex, if used as a ligature, leaves very little dermal abrasion, so might be why no "leathery texture" on neck. CK says study is from 1959. Defence says body hasn't changed much since then @TeamNews24 Jason #Rohde goes back to his seat as the lights go back on and medical slide show of Susan's autopsy ends @TeamNews24 Defence asks whether pathologist caused a subarachnoid haemorrhage in Susan #Rohde's brain (bleeding). CK says no, can't just tell from a pic, plus they examined it closely. CK says it can't alone cause death @TeamNews24 Were are looking at pics of Susan #Rohde's scalp and defence asks if the pathologist did not actually cause the haemorrhages and red marks on Susan's scalp. CK disagrees, says he checked these marks specifically @TeamNews24 The #Rohde trial pushes through lunch after short break because Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe has to leave at 14:30 and Coetzee-Khan needed for another case tomorrow @TeamNews24 Defence asks for comfort break if going to push through lunch. Judge says he said he need 1.5 days and past that now. Short break now. @TeamNews24 Defence asks for comfort break if going to push through lunch. Judge says he said he need 1.5 days and past that now. Short break now. @TeamNews24 Defence asks for comfort break if going to push through lunch. Judge says he said he need 1.5 days and past that now. Short break now. @TeamNews24 ICYMI:   CK says that in his testimony in chief he said the fractures to Susan #Rohde's ribs could possibly be due to resuscitation attempts. Not in his report @TeamNews24 Defence asking about neck and jaw injuries present on Susan Rohde. Wonder whether this might have been caused at resuscitation by Jason's colleague Mark Thompson, and Jason.  Apparently resusc injuries are common when done by lay people. Defence adv Graham vd Spuy can't find some pics he needs. Looks over at investigating officer and says not getting help from. Prosecutor says the defence has everything that has been placed before court already. Defence says will press on then @TeamNews24 The pathologist said did not find leather-like or parchment-like appearance on Susan #Rohde's  neck. Expected to find leathery look if she hanged self by the cord found in the bathroom from the rubbing against her neck. @TeamNews24 Jason #Rohde is almost like a statue, with the screen to his right showing images of his wife Susan's body during her autopsy. He is only twirling his thumbs occasionally. Does not look at pics @TeamNews24 Coetzee-Khan asked about injury to Susan's left shoulder? Was she dragged to bathroom, and if so any carpet fibres? CK says dragging is possible, but no fibres found @TeamNews24 ICYMI: Here is a list of injuries that were previously submitted to court by independent forensic pathologist Dr Reggie Perumal: The report allegedly showed that there were several old and new injuries on Susan Rohde’s body. Injuries in the process of healing: -	A bruise of 26cm x 16cm on her right thigh -	 A bruise of 7.5cm x 4.8cm on her left thigh. -	Also "many healing bruises on her lower limbs". New injuries: -	Left shoulder -	Left side of her brow -	Below and behind her right ear -	On a finger and knuckle of her left hand -	Left wrist - Left forearm  -	Toe on her left foot -	 Neck, jaw and chin -	A deep new bruise on her tongue -	Ribs 2 to 5 on her left side, ribs 3 to 6 on her right side, and part of her breast bone also broken. The abrasion is slightly below Susan #Rohde's left eyebrow and there are some red marks on her eyelid. CK called them two separate blunt force trauma injuries @TeamNews24 Shown old big bruise on Susan's upper right hand thigh; and big healing bruise on left upper thigh @TeamNews24 Jason #Rohde clasps his hands together as a picture of Susan's toe abrasion is shown with a ruler next to it. He is not looking at the pics of her toes with dark grey nail polish on @TeamNews24 State pathologist now asked to look at private pathologist Dr Reggie Perumal's report.  Going to cut lights for slide show. Jason Rohde moves out of dock to allow for slides to be projected on wall behind dock. We are now talking about iatrogenic injuries - injuries sustained during a medical or forensic procedure. Defence says radiology can be done on the neck to avoid this but none done on Susan #Rohde @TeamNews24 Dr. Khan also says if Susan was so violent and aggressive, why are there no wounds on Jason? “I don’t know if it’s because he was wearing a suit or what, but I would think we would see more injuries on accused after an altercation like this.” #Rohde We have adjourned for tea @TeamNews24 #Rohde ??NB to note: during the struggle in the room, where Susan wasn’t allowing Jason to leave, Jason grabbed her throat in order to move her out the way. Now Dr. Khan is commenting on the injuries sustained&if they could have been from the way Jason said the events went down.  #Rohde Pathologist says that Jason's version could explain some of his findings, but he needs more info because there was definitely signs of blunt force trauma on Susan #Rohde @TeamNews24 When Jason #Rohde woke up later he needed to go and do conference closing address and wanted to brush teeth etc. Door was locked and he thought Susan was trying to spite him @TeamNews24 In morning Susan Rohde woke Jason up and said: "Your whore has sent me a message." Jason told Susan he's "through with this" and wanted out of the marriage. She got up and went to the bathroom.  At one point Susan fell into a flower bed and cut her toe. They later went back to the hotel room. Jason told Susan it was over and tried to get some sleep @TeamNews24 They had a massive verbal and physical fight as Susan would not let Jason #Rohde leave the room. She pulled at him, he tried to get away, he hit her to get away @TeamNews24 Later on way back to their room, Jason was invited to afterparty and Susan #Rohde said no. @TeamNews24 
                Jump to
                top
            