Maxwell Roeland Observatory residents came out in numbers to remove three property developers from the suburb’s civic association. (Photo: Maxwell Roeland/GroundUp)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Observatory residents voted unanimously to nullify the controversial election that put three property developers into top positions in the Observatory Civic Association (OCA) last month.  The three are Theo Kruger, Ebrahim Abader and Tertius van Zyl, according to a GroundUp report.The packed meeting on Tuesday night saw hundreds of residents queue up for registration outside the Observatory Community Centre. Registration for new OCA members was cut off 35 minutes after the meeting's scheduled starting time at about 200 members, a record turnout. READ: Developers accused of hijacking Observatory civic association Olivia Andrews, chairperson of the OCA business forum, gave residents a detailed recap of suspicious activity noticed on the night of last month's election and irregularities found on the voters' roll, including that: Andrews also raised a conflict of interest. One of the OCA's functions is to monitor property development in Observatory, but there are ongoing developments owned by Kruger, Abader and Van Zyl. Claims of bias Kruger, Van Zyl and Abader, who were present at the meeting, were given the chance to answer to these charges.Abader said that the bloc of new members voting for them was a result of a marketing campaign they had run in advance of the election. "We asked people in Observatory to vote for us. So people on the day came out and they voted for us."Residents in the hall interjected saying that they had not heard of any such marketing campaign.Van Zyl said that Andrews' account was biased and put the three in "a very bad perspective" before they could make their case. He further said that the newly elected committee had not had a chance to prove itself.Kruger denied accusations that his properties were being used as a home/business address by multiple new voters. He said that the OCA's constitution allowed for all people who own or occupy property or a businesses in Observatory to vote.Audience members were then invited to put forward proposals for a course of action. After two proposals and several amendments, the final proposal put to a vote was as follows: The final tally was 200 votes in favour with no votes against and no abstentions. Kruger refused to comment on the meeting, while Abader and Van Zyl left before GroundUp could get comment from them. "The attempted 'hijacking' of the civic body has actually energised the community in a way that we haven't seen for years," said Observatory resident Murray Hunter about the meeting.  "But what's really encouraging is that many people have been talking, on the sidelines of the meeting and on social media forums, about what kind of development we do want in this neighbourhood – development which is inclusive and progressive. It feels like a new space is opening up in Obs' civic life." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  