Teboho Setena Nkhali Kalane, principal of the Katamelo ­Intermediate School (left), and Frik Rademan, Avbob chief executive officer, at the opening of the library. See another photo on p. 4.Photo: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Katamelo Intermediate School in Botshabelo has received a worthwhile educational tool in the form of a fully-stocked mobile library worth R5 million. Made possible by the Avbob Foundation, the mobile library is a first for the school since being established 30 years ago. The library was handed over to the school at a function held on 25 October. The library is stocked with approximately 2 500 books. Nkhali Kalane, principal, said the library would go a long way in improving learners’ reading, supporting the work teachers do and encouraging a culture of learning among learners. “The mobile library will assist my school greatly, as the community library is 15 km away. Having access to our own library is the best thing for the learners,” said Kalane. Frik Rademan, Avbob’s chief executive officer, said the company’s donation of the mobile library was a commitment to playing a part in educating future leaders. “An educated mind is a strong mind and strong minds open doors for us all,” said Rademan. He challenged the learners to make use of the library in a meaningful way. “If you believe in yourself, take opportunities offered to you and work hard, you can achieve great things.” Rademan said the company was responsible for the refurbishing of the container, which included the fitting of wooden laminated floors, shelving and a chalkboard, as well as supplying it with tables and chairs. The library is fitted with solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, which provide it with the capability to power up LED lights, a computer or projector, and to recharge mobile phones or laptop computers. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  