Monique Basson LESS than one week is left to help make a child’s Christmas dream come true. The Kouga Express once again appeal to re-sidents to help warm the hearts of less fortunate children in the community. A train, farm animals, shoes, a tractor, a ball, a moment of your time . . . these are some of the simple things that can make a difference for children that have never received a Christmas gift of their own. The surprise on the faces of the children is the best payment. This year, the Kouga Express, in conjunction with Pick n Pay and Fountains Mall, will be collecting gifts for over 300 pupils from Quagga Primary School in Patensie and Nooitgedacht Primary School in Kareedouw. The Kouga Express relies on the generosity of the community to be able to give presents. Without the support of local residents this project will fail. Each learner wrote his or her wish onto a special Christmas “wish card”, with his name and age. Wishes range from a tea set to a teddy bear and from a school bag to a doll. Some little boy is dreaming of his first ever tractor with farm animals, while a girl cannot wait to own beautiful hair accessories. One boy wants a Jeep and another a red bicycle. There are even practical wishes like stationery for school.  These cards are displayed on the Christmas tree in the forecourt at Pick n Pay in Fountains Mall.  Residents can select the wish card or cards that appeal to them and buy the gifts stipula-ted on the cards. Residents can either wrap the presents themselves, or have them wrapped by the Kouga Express team.  The following information must be clearly marked on the present: 
 Each card is unique to a deserving child. If a card is taken and not returned, that specific pupil could miss out on a present for Christmas.  Presents can be dropped off at either the Kouga Express office at 75 Da Gama Road in Jeffreys Bay or at Pick n Pay. All the presents must be returned by November 15. The presents will be handed out to the pupils at a special Christmas party at their respective schools.  For information, contact Monique Basson at 042 293 2973 or 082 219 9169. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  