Pam Magwaza PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	       The term “fake news” has undoubtedly been one of the most popular terms of 2017 and to be honest social media has been a major catalyst for the spreading of false news reports. This is most evident right now during the political crisis taking place in Zimbabwe. When the military took over Zimbabwe's ZBC state broadcaster, it sent the world and many news agencies into a frenzy for any information relating to what’s going down in Zim. Most media houses started relying on a social media account called @Zanu_PF which many believe to be the official Twitter handle of the ruling party in Zimbabwe. The account appeared to be in the know about the situation in Zimbabwe as it confirmed and denied rumours. ZANU PF has a way of solving our own problems, the situation is stable and Zimbabwe is open for business. There was no coup, but a bloodless peaceful transition- the centre is strong and there is peace with honest leadership. Zimbabwe has not had a coup. There has been a decision to intervene because our constitution had been undermined, in the interim Comrade E Mnagngawa will be president of ZANU PF as per the constitution of our revolutionary organisation.  However, the account, which has over 56 000 followers, isn’t verified and is a known fake or parody account. The BBC quoted the unverified account multiple times this morning – causing a frenzy on Twitter with users pointing out the account is actually not reliable. The media house later apologised for the mistake.  ZANU PF has a way of solving our own problems, the situation is stable and Zimbabwe is open for business. There was no coup, but a bloodless peaceful transition- the centre is strong and there is peace with honest leadership. Zimbabwe has not had a coup. There has been a decision to intervene because our constitution had been undermined, in the interim Comrade E Mnagngawa will be president of ZANU PF as per the constitution of our revolutionary organisation.   Here are some old tweets from the fake account that show it cannot be trusted. Never, fellow African, start a day with the imperialist and devilish Eggs Benedict. If hipsters are allowed, how will the families survive? Hipsters cannot produce children it is unnatural and sinful. Here is the official Zanu PF account. This is the official ZANU PF Party Twitter handle and not @zanu_pf . Please treat all posts by that handle with caution as they are meant to misrepresent and distort facts.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  