Three men found guilty of exhuming body of albino girl,16, for witchcraft rituals Blantyre – A Malawian court has found three suspects guilty of illegally exhuming the body of a 16-year-old girl living with albinism - for traditional rituals, says a report. According to Nyasa Times, Thomas Ndini, 36, Enock Banda, 26, and Jonas Ogara, 32, were charged with unlawfully exhuming Chosadziwa Kaunda’s corpse - contrary to Sections 131 (b) and 404 of Malawi's penal code. The trio was expected to be sentenced on November 17 after both the prosecution and defence presented their closing arguments. For more on this story click here  Togo, Guinea leaders mediate deepening Liberia election dispute Monrovia - West African leaders held mediation talks Wednesday with all sides involved in Liberia's disputed election, following a Supreme Court announcement it would summon the country's electoral commission to explain alleged fraud and irregularities. Liberia's top court has reviewed a legal complaint backed by three political parties and found "constitutional issues raised" by the electoral commission's actions during an October 10 presidential election, it said on Tuesday. A Supreme Court hearing on the issue is set for Thursday at 9am (0900 GMT). For more on this story click here  Bashir tells Kiir keen to solve disputes with S Sudan Khartoum - Sudan's president Omar al-Bashir told his South Sudanese counterpart Salva Kiir on Wednesday that Khartoum is keen to resolve all pending issues with South Sudan in a bid to improve relations, the official news agency SUNA reported. Bashir's remarks came during a meeting with Kiir, starting a two-day visit to Khartoum to try to resolve border disputes and address mutual accusations of supporting rebels in each other's countries. It is Kiir's third visit to Khartoum since the Christian-majority south split from the Muslim north in 2011 after a 22-year civil war that killed hundreds of thousands. Read more on this story here  Contrary to Mugabe's claims, IMF says Zim 'is among top 20 fragile countries' Harare – The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has reportedly said that Zimbabwe is among the most fragile economies in the world as it faces deep development challenges due to severe social and political turmoil. According to New Zimbabwe.com, in its Regional Economic Output report launched in Harare this week, the IMF said that the southern African country was among the top 20 countries that were characterised by severe social, political turmoil and economic instability. This was in contrast to President Robert Mugabe's claims in May that Zimbabwe was the second most developed coungtry in Africa after South Africa.  Read more on this story here  At least 23 civilians killed in Libya in October Cairo - The United Nations says violence in Libya has killed at least 23 civilians across the north African country last month. In a report published late on Wednesday, the UN Support Mission in Libya (UNMIL) says it has also documented 15 cases of civilians being wounded during fighting in October. The UNMIL's report says airstrikes, explosive remnants of war and gunfire caused the most civilian casualties. Read more on this story here  Malawi turns to British troops in poaching war Liwonde - Under a scorching sun, a team of British soldiers and Malawian rangers sheltered under a tree ready to pounce on their prey: poachers. The combined force, armed with rifles and handcuffs, did not encounter any poachers as it patrolled the 530 square kilometre Liwonde national park in Malawi's south. But the presence of the highly-trained and well-equipped British forces was reassuring for the rangers who routinely confront gangs of poachers armed with Kalashnikovs. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  