Angelique Serrao Khomotso Phahlane. (File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The businessman who allegedly paid for ex-acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane's vehicles has, according to IPID, received at least R5bn in tenders for the SAPS since 2010. This was revealed in a letter sent from the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) to acting National Police Commissioner General Lesetja Mothiba. The letter, titled "Investigation of Corruption against Lieutenant General Phahlane and service provider Keith Keating, of FDA", laid out how Phahlane, his wife and sister received "sponsored" vehicles from a businessman. READ: 'I agreed to step aside,' Phahlane says  The letter said that during the course of their investigation into Phahlane, IPID was able to uncover an allegedly corrupt relationship with FDA (Forensic Data Analyst), owned by Keith Keating. "The investigation has detected possible crimes of corruption, fraud and money laundering, facilitated by car dealer Durand Snyman," the letter said.   Fake name Phahlane, his sister, his wife, and a Colonel Potgieter (from the SAPS unit known as TMS) received vehicles allegedly sponsored by businessman Snyman. The letter said that the vehicles were purchased under the fake name, John Doe, and that Keating paid for them by putting money into Snyman's account. READ EXCLUSIVE: IPID orders police boss to stay away from investigations Keating, IPID said, has a contract with the SAPS for the supply and maintenance of Rolfin lights, alleged to be worth R1bn. He also has contracts with TMS, which is headed by Phahlane's wife, Brigadier Phahlane. Since 2010 FDA has been paid over R5bn by the SAPS, the letter said. During the investigation they uncovered some suspicious transactions IPID said. One example given was the supply of 169 forensic light sources. The order was generated on March 31 2016 for an amount of R52.9m at 16:57. The invoice was then submitted and payment was made, all on the same day. This was the last day of the financial year "which clearly demonstrate corruption through fiscal dumping," the letter said. The letter said this was but one example of many such "efficiencies", which indicate possible corruption that took place. Namibian bank payment Looking in-depth into the purchase of the vehicles, IPID said that a Toyota Hilux 3.0 4x4 single cab bakkie was purchased by an employee of InspectaCar. The purchase price was R377 000. The vehicle was then given to Phahlane and registered in his name. A VW Polo was registered in his wife, Brigadier Phahlane's name. It was bought by Snyman in January 2016 for R230 000. He also bought a Hyundai i20 for R229 000. Both cars were invoiced to John Doe and payment was made by InspectaCar. Phahlane's sister Josephine Phahlane allegedly received a King Cab Ford Ranger for R275 000. Snyman made a statement to IPID explaining that the vehicles were sponsored and his relationship with Phahlane was not corrupt. The letter said Keating paid Snyman for the vehicles. He deposited R1 084 000 into Snyman's account via a Namibian bank. The total cost of the vehicles allegedly sponsored was R1 082 000. IPID said they were in the process of conducting an in-depth investigation into the contracts and payments made to Keating's companies by the SAPS. IPID recommended that Brigadier Phahlane and Colonel Potgieter be suspended from TMS and that no further payments be made to FDA until their investigation is concluded. News24 has further seen parts of a forensic investigation done by Bowmans titled "SITA - SAPD capture". Contracts SITA is the State Information Technology Agency. The report looks specifically at FDA as well as other related companies and all the contracts they have been awarded, which according to the report totals R6.1bn. These contracts include IT Hardware and software, forensic equipment and consumables. There are a number of other companies mentioned in the report, possible SITA employees involved as well as police officers named. The report also gave a figure for planned expenditure for SAPS technology over the next three years priced at R11.2bn. Police spokesperson Colonel Athlenda Mathe said they would not discuss matters pertaining to the employer/employee relationship in the media space. "Such matters are internal of nature," Mathe said. Keating said the allegations were viewed in a serious light and that they were unfounded and untrue; he refuted them. "It is important to note that, all contracts that FDA had been engaged on with SAPS has been through an open tender process and subjected to procurement regulations." 'Ridiculous' allegations Keating said their business, since 2010, was a fraction of the amount mentioned. Phahlane told News24 that he felt the allegations against him were getting "more ridiculous day by day". He said the tenders allegedly being spoken about were awarded through the SITA and not the police. "When exactly did I start working at the SITA? I work at the police and have nothing to do with the awarding of tenders," he said. Phahlane said he has made it clear that two vehicles, a Toyota Hilux and a VW Polo, were sponsored to him and said that what the dealer did behind the scenes had nothing to do with him. "If there is anything they are finding in their investigations then they need to go to the NPA," he said. "I can't all the time be answering questions through the media." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  