The high court in Pretoria has issued a court order aimed at
alleviating the crisis in South Africa’s foster care system. According to Zita Mulambo Hansungule, senior project coordinator
for the Centre for Child Law, the SA foster care system is currently providing
for 460 000 children but is designed to care for only 100 000. This
discrepancy has come about as relatives caring for orphaned children have been
accessing the foster child grant, which pays out R920 a month, instead of the
child support grant, which pays out R380 a month. “This has caused the system to be overburdened and social
workers to be overworked and not able to adequately provide services to other
vulnerable children,” she said. The centre, which is based at the University of Pretoria,
first noticed the problem in 2011 when over 100 000 foster care orders lapsed
due to the system being overburdened. This placed the payment of grants at risk
and the centre urgently approached the court at that time. With the national department
of social development’s (DSD) support they got a court order that allowed for
administrative extension of foster care orders. This arrangement was intended
to last for only three years while a comprehensive legal solution was sought,
but in 2014 the system was still unable to cope with the large number of children
in foster care and DSD sought and was granted an extension for a further three
years, during which amendments to the Children’s Act were to be made to resolve
the crisis. With the three year extended deadline looming at the end of
2017, the Centre for Child Law and the DSD have held several meetings in an
attempt to develop a comprehensive legal solution to the foster care crisis.  “The order by agreement handed down in court
today declares the current situation of the overburdened foster care system to
be unconstitutional. The order also ensures that children whose foster care
orders have lapsed or are due to lapse are reinstated or extended,” Zita Mulambo
Hansungule said. She added that the order requires DSD to put measures in
place to ensure the necessary legislative amendments that will bring about a
comprehensive legal solution to the foster care crisis be concluded within a
period of 2 years.