Nation Nyoka Demonstrators in Cape Town pray during the recent Black Monday protest against farm murders. (Aletta Harrison, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Marlene Conradie, the widow of wine farmer Joubert Conradie, 47, who was killed on his farm in Klapmuts last Tuesday, said she was overwhelmed by support from people who joined the #BlackMonday protest.WATCH Johannesburg – A 32-year-old farm worker was on Tuesday arrested for allegedly killing his employer, and wounding another farm worker at Bonte Heuwel Farm in the Northern Cape town of Griekwastad. The accused and the farm owner, 35, apparently had an argument on Tuesday afternoon, which resulted in him allegedly shooting him in the chest with a .22 rifle, said provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Mohale Ramatseba on Wednesday. It is unclear what the argument was about.  The man allegedly also shot a 26-year-old farm worker in the lower body. He was admitted to hospital. Netwerk24 identified the deceased as livestock farmer Willem van der Westhuizen. Ramatseba said the shooter drove off in the farmer's Ford Ranger bakkie. "The police were notified about the incident and gave chase; the suspect overturned the bakkie and tried to run on foot. The police managed to arrest him and confiscated the rifle. The rifle's serial number was filed off." Ramatseba told News24 that it was unclear who the rifle belonged to, but that this would form part of the police investigation currently underway. Northern Cape Commissioner of police Lieutenant-General Risimati Shivuri commended the community of Griekwastad for helping lead to the swift arrest of the suspect and the recovery of the rifle. The man was expected to appear in the Griekwastad Magistrate Court on Friday on charges of murder and attempted murder. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  