Makhosandile Zulu PHOTO: Makhosandile zuluResidents living near this rat-infested dump in Eastwood say it is a health risk. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories EASTWOOD residents are angry about the continuos illegal dumping of waste near a block of flats in Weaver Road. Residents told Maritzburg Echo that not only is the dump disgusting, it is a major health risk because it is rat infested. One resident said she has spoken to the ward councillor many times about the problem, but nothing has been done to resolve it. “I have, more than once, spoken to the environmental officer in the ward, Mzwandile Goge, who promised that something will be done about it, but the problem remains,” said the resident, who asked to remain anonymous. Another resident said what is baffling is that the refuse truck comes around every Thursday without fail to collect household rubbish, but still the dumping continues. Area ward councillor, Mike Amod could not be reached for comment due to ill health, so in his absence Eunice Majola has been appointed caretaker councillor. Majola said she has only been officially caretaker councillor for a week and due to Amod’s health had not been able to liaise with him regarding matters raised by the community beforehand. She called on the community to forward an official complaint to the councillor’s office. The Maritzburg Echo spoke to the ward war room chairperson, Mzwandile Goge, who belongs to the Abashana Hydrophonic and Agricultural Development Co-operative that addresses such matters in the area about solutions to the problem in Weaver Road. Goge said campaigns, some school-based, have run in Eastwood to raise awareness on maintaining a clean environment. “We encourage every household in the area to make environmental sustainability their responsibility, encourage people not to litter and to report illegal dumpers,” Goge said. He said in other illegal dumps in the area, many worse than the one in Weaver Road, projects have been established to ensure illegal dumping stops. “In one area we are going to set up a bicycle track and in other areas we will start community gardens.” The goal for the co-op is to create jobs for the volunteers that work on the organisation’s projects, as well as create business opportunities in the environment sector and waste management. He said 11 co-op volunteers have found employment under the municipality’s extended public works programme, the others continue to gain environmental sustainability skills. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  