
        Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF is set to begin moves to impeach President Robert Mugabe, 93, with an official saying that a motion to strip the nonagenarian of the presidency would be presented to parliament. Follow the Live updates.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 A painting of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe is seen at
the ZANU-PF offices in Mbare, Harare. 

 
 Lawmakers with the ruling ZANU-PF party gathered to meet on
the fate of long-time President Robert Mugabe, who has refused efforts to step
down. (Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi, AP)

 The Zimbabwe Defence and Security Services said they are
encouraged by the new developments which include contact between President
Robert Mugabe and the former Vice President, Emmerson Mnangagwa, who is
expected in the country shortly.

 

 "Thereafter, the nation will be advised on the outcome
of talks between the two. In the meantime, His Excellency and
Commander-in-Chief of the Zimbabwe Defence Forces, Cde RG Mugabe has started
processes toward a definitive solution and roadmap for the country," said
General Constantino Chiwenga. - ZBC

 Impeachment could see Robert Mugabe kicked out by a vote in
parliament in under a day and would represent an ignominious end to the career
of the "Grand Old Man" of African politics, who was once lauded
across the continent as an anti-colonial hero.

 

 Chief whip Lovemore Matuke told Reuters ZANU-PF members of
parliament would meet at 12:30 GMT to start mapping out Mugabe’s impeachment. -
Reuters

 From AP Zimbabwe's ruling party expressed confidence on Monday that longtime President Robert Mugabe could be impeached within two days, while the world's oldest head of state ignored the party's midday deadline to resign. As ruling party lawmakers began meeting on impeachment plans, deputy secretary for legal affairs Paul Mangwana said they would move a motion for impeachment on Tuesday and set up a parliamentary committee, and on Wednesday the committee would report back to all lawmakers and "we vote him out." The main charge against the 93-year-old Mugabe is "allowing his wife to usurp government powers" and that "he is too old and cannot even walk without help," Mangwana told reporters. Zimbabwe’s ruling Zanu-PF is set to begin moves to impeach
President Robert Mugabe, 93, with an official saying that a motion to strip the
nonagenarian of the presidency would be presented to parliament on Tuesday.
 The process, the official said, could take just two days. The motion accuses the veteran leader of charges including
allowing his wife Grace to "usurp constitutional power".  From AFP:  Zimbabwe's army chief Constantino Chiwenga has said that progress has been made in talks towards an apparent deal over Mugabe's exit. Chiwenga also said the president was in touch with Emmerson Mnangagwa, the ousted vice president whose sacking triggered the military takeover and Mugabe's loss of power. "The security services are encouraged by new developments which include contact between the president and the former vice president... who is expected in the country shortly," Chiwenga said. "Thereafter the nation will be advised of the outcome of talks between the two."Chiwenga called for calm after Zimbabweans had celebrated on Saturday at huge anti-Mugabe marches that would have been brutally repressed just a week ago.  Zim war veterans ask High Court to validate 'army intervention' Zimbabwe's war veterans have reportedly approached the High Court seeking an order declaring the intervention by the defence forces as a lawful and justified action meant to defend constitutionalism. According to a state-owned Herald newspaper, the war veterans said that the Zimbabwe Defence Forces (ZDF) realised that President Robert Mugabe had been captured by his wife Grace and her Generation 40 (G40) gang. This was "to an extent that he (Mugabe) was no longer able to exercise his functions before moving in to protect the nation by weeding out the criminal elements that had positioned themselves around the head of State", the war veterans said. 
                Jump to
                top
            