Tendai 'Beast' Mtawarira (Gallo) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A group of South African farmers, currently harvesting crops in America, decided to show their support for the #BlackMonday initiative. Watch. WATCH Cape Town – Emergency services could be withdrawn if no emergency plan is set up to protect members; More evidence that Susan Rohde was feeling suicidal and Beast, Coenie return for Boks.Here are today’s top stories. Hawks investigate leak of classified information used in Jacques Pauw book  The Hawks have confirmed that they are investigating the leak of classified information that ended up being published in Jacques Pauw's book The President's Keepers.  Read here. Threat to withdraw emergency services over attacks in Western Cape The Health and Other Services Personnel Trade Union of South Africa (Hospersa) is demanding that an emergency plan be set up to help protect its members in the Western Cape from ongoing attacks, warning that it could withdraw its services.  More here. Family offered food parcels after losing stepson A distraught woman who lost her stepson in the Life Esidimeni tragedy was offered food parcels after his death. Read more here. Suicide Squad download cited as evidence in Rohde trial Downloading the soundtrack to the hit movie Suicide Squad and information about poet Sylvia Plath were submitted as evidence that Susan Rohde was feeling suicidal, the defence team for her murder-accused husband Jason submitted in the Western Cape High Court. Read more here. Beast, Coenie return for Boks, De Allende at 12 Experienced props Tendai Mtawarira and Coenie Oosthuizen, as well as inside centre Damian de Allende, all return to the Springbok starting team to face Ireland on Saturday evening (kick-off at 19h30 SA time) at the Aviva Stadium in Dublin. Sport24 has more here. WATCH: Petrol attendant dances 'drunk' while on duty A video showing a seemingly drunk BP garage petrol attendant dancing while on duty, has been doing the rounds on social media. Watch here. UPDATE: Airlink passenger shares account of 'massive explosion' ahead of emergency landing To say that Airlink flight AVRO RJ85 from Harare just had 'engine failure'  is a gross understatement, according to one passenger on board the plane.  Read here. An open letter to the organisers of #BlackMonday by Zizi Kodwa In an open letter to #BlackMonday organisers Daniel Briers and Talita Basson, ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa writes: I take this rare opportunity to write this personal letter to you as fellow South Africans, to commend you for having organised and raised the issue of farm killings which concern all of us.  Read the full letter here. #Declassified: Apartheid Profits - Singapore: Pretoria's gateway to Asia In the 15th article in the series, 'Declassified: Apartheid Profits', we unpack the diplomatic and military intelligence links between the apartheid regime and Singapore. This article is drawn from the research for the book Apartheid Guns and Money: A Tale of Profit. Read here. Ben Martins denies Gupta ‘tea party’ with Eskom legal head Deputy Public Enterprises Minister Ben Martins has denied meeting suspended Eskom head of legal Suzanne Daniels with Ajay Gupta and Duduzane Zuma in a flat near Melrose Arch in 2017.  Read more on Fin24 here. Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  