Mahlatse Mahlase (File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Divisions in the ANC Women's
League have come to the fore, with the Northern Cape
nominating Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to take over the party
reigns at the December elective conference.  This is in defiance of the national and provincial leadership’s position to endorse presidential
hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma.  The provincial leagues in Mpumalanga and Limpopo
have differed with Northern Cape, endorsing Dlamini-Zuma. Both have described
the nomination as unanimous.  The ANC Women’s League is campaigning for
Dlamini-Zuma to be the party's first female president, replacing  President
Jacob Zuma. At the time the league’s National Executive Committee announced it
will back her, some league members said the position was not canvassed within
the lower structures.  Also read: ANC conference likely to collapse as taxpayer money used to 'grease the wheels' - Trevor Manuel In the Northern Cape,
the secret ballot had to be used after both Dlamini-Zuma and Ramaphosa were nominated.  League provincial secretary Topys Vilaka, who is also on the National Executive Committee,
chuckled about how she now has to promote Ramaphosa despite earlier endorsing
Dlamini-Zuma.  “Whether I like it or not, I have to go out and say
this is the position of the Northern Cape... I think  I am okay because it
was a democratic process,” Vilaka told News24.  “There was nothing we could do, as a PEC (Provincial
Executive Council) it would have been unconstitutional to go into that meeting
and say this is the position. You must all obey and follow this,” she said. Both Mpumalanga and Limpopo followed the league’s top
six slate that also include David
Mabuza as deputy president, Nathi Mthethwa as national Chair, Ace
Magashule as secretary-general, Jessie
Duarte as deputy Secretary-General and
Maine Nkoana-Mashabane as treasurer general.  Mpumalanga provincial secretary Lydia Moroane said in a statement that the nominated
leaders represented the "best cadres to lead radical economic transformation”. Mpumalanga's position is seen as an indication that
Mabuza, who has been coy about who he will back between the two front runners, is likely to throw his weight
behind Dlamini-Zuma.  Also read: ANC members frustrated with nomination processes as deadline to elective conference looms Ironically the league in Limpopo has nominated former president Angie Motshekga who
is linked to the Ramaphosa campaign for the National Executive Committee.
Motshekga lost to current ANCWL president Bathabile Dlamini and the two have
been at odds in recent times.    Presidential hopeful Baleka Mbete is also on the
list of the women recommended for the NEC.      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  