Kim Abrahams PHOTO: Gallo Images/Getty Images 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A parent who held a teacher hostage after suffering an
emotional breakdown has been gunned down by police after an hours-long
standoff. Luvelle Kennon (27) held a 70-year-old first-grade teacher
hostage for seven hours at his daughter's Southern California elementary school. The man is believed to have suffered an emotional breakdown
and was described by family members as ‘a good kid’. “He had a breakdown and he relapsed again. That's all, he's
not dangerous,” the suspect's uncle, Carl Jackson told the media on the morning
of the incident, which took place at Castle View Elementary.  Carl added that his nephew was ‘not a bad guy’ and had
‘never been in trouble’. “He's a good kid, just having an emotional breakdown. He
doesn't have no access to no weapons [sic].” According to the Los
Angeles Times, the incident started Tuesday morning around 11.15 am, when Luvelle
forced his way into the school. Daily
Mail reports that he punched a substitute teacher in the face when he was
asked to sign in. The victim was left with a bloody shirt and apparent broken
nose. It was then that Luvelle took 70-year-old Linda Montgomery
into an empty classroom and locked the two of them inside. His reasons for
doing so are unknown.  It is unknown whether he was armed. Students were evacuated from the classrooms and safely sent
to their parents.  Shortly before 6 pm, Riverside police raided the classroom
using flash bang grenades.  They managed to subdue Luvelle, who, at this point, had
reportedly assaulted Linda. Daily
Mail writes that Luvelle was seen wheeled out on a stretcher after the incident
but later succumbed to his injuries. According to Ryan Railsback, a Riverside police Officer,
negotiators had tried to communicate with the suspect but became concerned when
they heard nothing from the teacher. After her release, Linda was taken to a nearby hospital
where she wasn’t found to have any serious injuries. “She loves teaching,” her daughter, Michelle Montgomery,
told River
Side Enterprise after the ordeal. She added that her mother had been
teaching for 20 years.  Sources: Daily Mail, Los Angeles Times, River Side Enterprise   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  