ON Monday, November 20, Hlengiwe Zuma (41), and Fisani Khoza (40), pleaded guilty in the Pietermaritzburg High Court to murder, attempted murder and fraud.  They were both sentenced to 15 years for murder, eight for attempted murder and eight for fraud. The sentences will run concurrently.  The two are part of a syndicate that was defrauding insurance companies.  They were arrested in October last year following an investigation by Pietermaritzburg Organised Crime Hawks.  Zuma and Khoza took out life cover insurance policies for Mzomuhle Zuma and Sonosakhe Mdlalose.  On August 27, 2015, the accused took Mzomuhle to Greytown where he was left on the road. They then ran him over with a stolen vehicle, killing him instantly.  An inquest docket was opened at Greytown Police Station. Hlengiwe claimed from the insurance money and shared it with her accomplices. In November 2015, Hlengiwe identified another victim, a domestic worker.  She was taken to a tavern by her accomplices and drugged before being taken to Copesville where she was left on the road.  One of the accused then drove over her in a stolen vehicle and fled.  However, the victim didn’t die and was taken to hospital.  On March 19, 2016, Sonosakhe Mdlalose was found lying on the road in Ematimatolo.  After intensive investigation by the Hawks it was discovered that Mdlalose had been insured by Khoza and on March 19, Mdlalose was intentionally run over by the accused in a stolen vehicle.  Mdlalose was declared dead at the scene. Further investigation revealed the accused were responsible for the death of Bongani Gcabashe, who was shot and killed in Gwinyamathe, Ematimatolo in August 2016.  Gcabashe was killed after the accused failed to get him drunk and then ran him over.  Jabulile Zaca (54), who is yet to be convicted, allegedly instructed the accused to shoot the victim. The accused had claimed R1.3 million from various insurance companies after the death of the victims.  Zamokwakhe Khanyile (37), Doda Khumalo (37), and Zaca (54), will appear again in the Pietermaritzburg High Court on November 30.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  