Morgan Tsvangirai (AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabwe's Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) Morgan
Tsvangirai and war veterans leader Christopher Mutsvangwa reportedly flew back
home from South Africa on Wednesday. According to the privately-owned NewsDay newspaper, this came as
reports indicated that both Tsvangirai and Mutsvangwa were "ready to enter
negotiations to form a transitional government with former vice president
Emmerson Mnangagwa". Tsvangirai and Mutsvangwa had both been in South Africa on
different missions, the report said. The Zimbabwe
Defence Forces (ZDF) on Wednesday announced that it had taken over the country
and was keeping the country's president Robert Mugabe and his family under
guard at his home as the military was getting rid of the "criminals around
Mugabe". On Monday the ZDF warned the
93-year-old leader that it would intervene if he continued purging party
veterans in a bid to see his wife, Grace Mugabe, become his successor. 'Bumpy process' The takeover, which has largely
been described as a coup, also saw the arrest of several ministers and members
of the so-called "Generation 40" group within the ruling party. The faction is believed to have
been working to ensure Mugabe's recently fired vice president Emmerson
Mnangagwa would never ascended to the presidency. The move by
the military was welcomed by many, including Mugabe’s critic Sten
Zvorwadza, who however, said that a civilian interim government should be
installed soon. In an
interview with News24, the National Vendors' Union of Zimbabwe chairperson said
that he was "excited" over the recent developments in the country. "What the military has done is the
right thing. I can joyfully say that there is no coup in Zimbabwe. The military
has exercised its constitutional mandate of mitigating a situation that would
have led into a bloodbath," said Zvorwadza. Zvorwadza called on fellow citizens to rally behind the current developments as the situation with President Mugabe’s party would have led into a "bumpy process going forward". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  