Mpho Raborife and James de Villiers Thick smoke on Cape Town roads as a result of spreading fires. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – A fire has spread across an extensive area of vegetation on mountain slopes along Sir Lowry’s Pass, the City of Cape Town said on Tuesday. Power supply to the Gordon's Bay and Sir Lowry's Village has been disrupted as a result of carbon build up on the transmission lines, disaster management spokesperson Charlotte Powell said.Two electricity substations have been destroyed by the fire but City of Cape Town Electricity Services and Eskom are working to restore power.Sporadic breaks in transmission of electricity is expected in the area and no restoration time is available. Small holdings have been evacuated earlier but no other evacuations have been ordered.Layne said that residents voluntarily left their homes as the fire approached and returned when they felt it was safe to. Powell has also urged public to avoid the affected areas to ensure that firefighters and emergency personnel perform their duties. Strong winds fanned a fire in Sir Lowry’s Pass which has now reached four homes in Gordon's Bay, Theo Layne City of Cape Town fire and rescue spokesperson said. Around 200 firefighters are battling to extinguish the blaze.  There are currently 46 Working on Fire firefighters on the ground, Lauren Howard, Working on Fire's spokesperson said. Thirty three fire-fighting vehicles are on the scene. Wind speeds are at 30 km/h per hour with gusts up to 65 km/h. Michael Barnes, weather forecaster at WeatherSA said that while the wind speeds are average, the gusts are causing problems. “We don’t expect the wind conditions to change. The winds will continue right down to tomorrow morning.” - Are you there, or are you affected?  Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos. City of Cape Town safety and security director Richard Bosman said the N2 was closed between Sir Lowry's Pass Rd and Botrivier. Clarence Drive (R44) has also been closed from Beach Road at Gordon's Bay Harbour. Access to Rooi Els is only possible when coming from Pringle Bay. There was also no access to Gordon's Bay Rd and Sir Lowry's Pass Village and all outgoing traffic was required to make a U-turn at Sir Lowry’s Rd intersection. Also read: #SirLowrysPassFire: 12 ways to be safe on our roads "No heavy duty trucks or busses will be able to travel through the R44 Rooi Els due to the road works," Bosman added. A thick cloud of smoke was also seen hanging over the Cape Town CBD.  Meanwhile, Animal Welfare Helderberg has thanked the public for heeding to calls for help to rescue animals, they have all been removed from the premises. “If anyone can help please come to our kennels. Don't phone us, the phones are chaotic. “If you can take dogs come to us in Mansfield Crescent in Gordon's Bay urgently please,” they requested earlier in a Facebook post.     There’s a MASSIVE fire somewhere in Cape Town and the entire city is getting flooded with smoke!!! pic.twitter.com/ny6WQu94oN  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  