Tshidi Madia  Premier Ace Magashule. (Picture: Maryke Swart) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – ANC Free State members are angry that the
province is holding a "surprise" provincial general council (PGC) on
Tuesday to consolidate branches' leadership nominations ahead of the December
elective conference.  Party members were caught off guard when an announcement was
made to the media and members of the party late on Monday afternoon to say that
the PGC would be held in Parys. The announcement was made via SMS and email.   "Provincial Executive Committee members kindly note
that there will be a PGC tomorrow, Tuesday 28 November at 11:00 at Woodlands
Lodge in Parys," the SMS read.  Unhappy party members have questioned the timing of the PGC.
The province is still dealing with disputes from branch general meetings, held
to nominate national leaders, and members of the party were in court on Monday
challenging the BGM processes towards the provincial elective conference. The PGC was only expected later in the week, after Secretary
General Gwede Mantashe told journalists it would be held simultaneously with
the province’s elective congress scheduled for December 1 to 3.  "We thought it would be a waste of resources and energy
to separate the two activities," Mantashe said last week. Some members of the party in the province told News24 they
were taken aback by the announcement and labelled it a desperate move by
chairperson Ace Magashule to deliver his province to party presidential hopeful
Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. Magashule is in the Dlamini-Zuma camp and has been
nominated by the Women's and Youth League as their preferred candidate for the
secretary general position. Manipulating processes So far only two provinces, the Western Cape and Northern Cape,
have held PGCs, and both nominated Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as their
preferred candidate to replace President Jacob Zuma when he steps down as
leader of the ANC in two weeks' time. One Free State leader, who did not want to be named, told
News24 that Magashule was trying to manipulate processes through a
"surprise PGC". "PGCs are linked to the national conference. You cannot
run them when there are BGM disputes being won against the province. What about
the branches which have been ordered to rerun BGMs, and the court case? BGMs
are being questioned," said the regional leader. He accused Magashule of forcing the PGC in order to deliver
the Free State province to his "national handlers". The regional leader told News24 that they wanted to see
Magashule’s attempts thwarted and were prepared to fight him in the courts and
on the streets. The province, which has been marred by court cases ahead of
its long overdue elective conference and national conference, is awaiting a
ruling on a legal bid to interdict its Friday provincial congress. The verdict
is set to be delivered on Wednesday. Magashule's 25-year grip on the province
as chairperson is being challenged by his deputy, Thabo Manyoni. 'Desperate' A former provincial leader, who refuses to recognise
Magashule and his Provincial Executive Committee as legitimate, also described the
announcement and decision to hold the PGC ahead of a court judgment as
desperate. "This is the chair’s only path to a national career in
the ANC," said the former leader. The party member, who once worked closely with Magashule,
said the Free State chair needed to get his province to national conference and
would do whatever it took to achieve this. The ANC’s spokesperson in the province, Thabo Meeko, has
however rubbished the claims. He told News24 there was nothing untoward about
the announcement. "We decided to convene the PGC. It's nothing else but
to come and make a reflection of the nominations by the branches," said
Meeko. He insisted their gathering had nothing to do with the court
case and that the ANC in the Free State were not disregarding that process. "The ANC is not going to stop breathing because there
is court. Of course, people are continuing to take us to court, but ANC
processes must happen," he said. Meeko said the court case was about the provincial congress
set to take place at the weekend. He insisted that the PGC announcement was properly
communicated to members and said no one was caught by surprise. Meeko also attributed complaints about the announcement to
those aggrieved over leadership preference issues. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  