Henri van Breda before his cross-examination. (Tammy Petersen, News24)
 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Triple murder accused Henri van Breda was back in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday for the continuation of his testimony in his ongoing trial and he donned his Van Gogh-inspired The Starry Night tie again for the occasion.  Van Gogh painted Starry Night in 1889 during his stay at the asylum of Saint-Paul-de-Mausole near Saint-Rémy-de-Provence.  The Van Gogh Gallery states that his mental health seemed to recover in this time, but then he relapsed. He began to hallucinate and have suicidal thoughts as he plunged into depression.  "Accordingly, there was a tonal shift in his work. He returned to incorporating the darker colors from the beginning of his career and Starry Night is a wonderful example of that shift," the gallery reports on its website.   Twenty-three-year-old Van Breda is accused of murdering his parents and older brother, as well as the attempted murder of his younger sister in their home in Stellenbosch in 2015. While keen trial-followers hung onto every word of his testimony, many viewers appeared to be distracted by his tie and tried to find a deeper meaning. Some took to Twitter and drew their own conclusions. This #VanBreda demon wearing a Van Gogh tie during trial is making me SO ART ANGRY. #VanBreda Look at his tie...Thats a Van Gogh tie of the starry night...he's just playing out his own Van Gogh story... — Gamma (@RiseOfAKing11) November 1, 2017 #VanBreda Henri wearing his most extravagant tie today: starry starry night. Can't express how inappropriate this is. It's a triple homicide #VanBreda has a Starry Night tie and now I like him again :( #VanBreda in his Van Gogh - A Starry Night tie. A painting famously expressing a range of deep emotions... hmm... Interesting I tell ya 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  