Jeanette Chabalala   (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The grandparents and cousin of two minor boys, accused of rape and sexually assaulting, them will go on trial in May 2018.  The three appeared briefly before a packed public gallery in the Palm Ridge Regional Court on Friday.  The trial will start on May 4 until the 9th.  The State was also given an opportunity to consult with witnesses on May 2. Their bail has been extended until then. During the last appearance last month, their mother had shared her frustrations at the delays. The case had been postponed numerous times.  -Read: They were almost destroyed – mother of boys allegedly raped by grandparents "I still can't say to my sons that this is over. They have, for [most] of their lives, had to go through things that no child has ever had to go through from people that we honestly trusted with everything, loved with everything and they were just totally let down, they were almost destroyed," the mother told News24, as her eyes welled up with tears at the time. The mother learnt of the alleged rape when the boys, now aged five and seven, first disclosed the rape to her and her husband in 2016.  The youngest son had just turned four. The children would be dropped off and later picked up from their grandparents' home in Alberton while they were still infants. Women and Men Against Child Abuse's Miranda Jordan said the younger boy was initially allegedly sexually abused by his cousin, then later the older boy was also allegedly raped by his cousin, then his grandfather and grandmother. Following court proceedings on Friday, WMACA's Vincentia Dlamini said the case should set an example for everyone who knows about the abuse and doesn't come forward.  "It is rare that you will get that a grandmother will be prosecuted for the knowledge of knowing about an abuse. It will be interesting what kind of sentence she will get,'' Dlamini said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  