
        A marriage counsellor, who was seeing real estate executive and murder-accused Jason Rohde and his wife Susan, has taken the stand in the trial underway in the Western Cape High Court.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Mihalik says he has no more questions for Nader. State has no re-examination. Nader excused. Dr Larissa Panieri-Peter is a specialist forensic psychiatrist located in Cape Town. She deals with psycho-legal assessments concerning both criminal and civil cases. Psychologist Carol Nader also had legal consultation ito medical indemnity insurance.#Rohde #Rohde trial starts with witness 67 Carol Nader sworn in. @TeamNews24 ICYMI: Susan Rohde had told her psychologist, Jane Newcombe, that she became so distressed during couple's therapy with a different counsellor, that the counsellor wanted to have her admitted to hospital to be treated possibly for anxiety and distress. Newcombe diagnosed her with anxiety and previously told the court that at no time did she feel that Susan was at risk of suicide. Last week in the #Rohde trial we heard that Susan became so distressed during marriage counselling that there was a suggestion that she be admitted for treatment @TeamNews24 Back at the Western Cape High Court as prosecution and defence try to determine whether Susan #Rohde killed herself or whether her husband Jason had a hand in her death @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/gRWHuK9AcM Rohde case back in court The murder case of property boss Jason Rohde will continue in the Western Cape High Court on Monday. In a previous sitting, the court heard how Susan Rohde threatened that she felt like dying in the weeks leading up to her death. Susan was found hanging from the back of her bathroom door in a Cape Town hotel. The couple attended a Lew Geffen Sotheby's International Realtors conference at the time. Susan had earlier discovered that Jason was having an affair with Cape Town estate agent Jolene Alterskye. Alterskye was also at the conference and Susan met her briefly. 
                Jump to
                top
            