
        The murder trial of property mogul Jason Rohde has continued in the Western Cape High Court where clinical psychologist Jane Newcombe shared Susan Rohde's clinical diary with the court. 
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 ICYMI:  It was previously reported that a marriage counsellor who was seeing Jason and Susan felt she could be a suicide risk. Jason Rohde, in his affidavit, said the counsellor's report stated on two occasions that Susan could be a suicide risk and should seek immediate counselling and help. He said the State was in possession of this report, as well as other documents pointing towards his wife's death being self-inflicted. Valentine's Day card gave away Rohde's illicit affair A Valentine's Day card hidden in murder-accused Jason Rohde's suitcase turned his wife Susan's life upside down, her psychologist testified at the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday. "I found that my husband Jason was having an affair with Jolene, 35, in Cape Town," Susan wrote in a personal history form her psychologist Jane Newcombe asked her to fill in. She said the card from Jolene Alterskye was discovered in a suitcase and it had affected her badly, especially since it had started in June 2015. "I am currently battling to cope with that," said Susan Rohde. Relationship between Jason and Susan Rohde was always loving and then it became distant. Friends didn't believe he was having affair. Susan Rohde said she couldn't see what the attraction was (to Jolene). Susan #Rohde asked Jason to cut off all comms with Jolene, to block her. Felt Jason needed to be protected by her from Jolene @TeamNews24 Susan #Rohde called Jolene to ask her to leave Jason alone. She had spoken respectfully about Jolene. Was not angry with her. @TeamNews24 ICYMI: According to previous reports, the relationship allegedly started in October 2015, shortly after Alterskye sold Rohde a flat on the Atlantic Seaboard. Susan Rohde reportedly found out about the affair early in 2016 and confronted her husband. He allegedly promised to end it.  Said Jason #Rohde also seeing his own therapist, and they were seeing a couple's therapist. She was feeling anxious, depressed @TeamNews24 Susan told therapist she was battling to cope with Jason's affair, they fought a lot about it, but there was no violence @TeamNews24 Susan #Rohde said in 2nd session  with Newcombe she discovered Jason was having affair in Feb when found Valentine's card. @TeamNews24 
                Jump to
                top
            