Alex Mitchley  Executive Mayor of Tshwane Solly Msimanga. (Veli Nhlapo, Gallo Images, Sowetan, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria – The findings of a 2010 preliminary forensic report which implicate top officials in tender fraud amounting to R15m are being investigated by the city seven years later. Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga has now launched a full forensic investigation after getting his hands on the report which was seemingly swept under the carpet, said his spokesperson, Sam Mgobozi. Msimanga's administration has begun dealing with a backlog of alleged corruption passed down by his predecessor, said Mgobozi. PSMA Holdings was contracted by the city in 2010 to investigate irregularities associated with the procurement and use of service providers by various departments in the city. This included the Tshwane Metro Police Department (TMPD), which falls under the community safety department of Tshwane. The report implicates four high-ranking officials for fraud amounting to just over R15m. Msimanga, in a statement, said the money was supposedly meant for procuring security systems for the city and its residents. READ: R10m in unexplained spending in Tshwane speaker's office  "Yet it appears that those systems never materialised despite the money having been spent," said Msimanga. The 2010 report, which was tabled by the standing committee on public accounts at a city council meeting last week, alleges that high-ranking officials were complicit. According to the report, a top official, whose name is known to News24, allegedly flouted the supply chain management (SCM) policy by creating orders and procuring quotes for services from a supplier himself, instead of going through the procurement system. The senior official allegedly split up orders into smaller amounts to fly under the radar of the R300 000 cap. It is also alleged that the official also obtained quotations from companies where his wife was either a director or board member. While the report does not detail who benefited from these irregularities, it said that the city suffered a minimum loss of R15 181 430. All the officials implicated in the report have since resigned. Msimanga said if the claims in the report turn out to be true, the city would institute disciplinary and criminal action against those implicated. "We will also activate administrative actions to ensure that some of this money is recovered so that it can be put to creating a safer city for the people of Tshwane," said Msimanga. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  