Lizeka Tandwa ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe. (Deon Raath, Gallo Images, City Press, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria - Despite the majority of the ANC's provinces having only reached the 50% mark of leadership nominations, the party is not willing to extend its November 15 deadline, Secretary General Gwede Mantashe said on Saturday. Speaking at the party's special National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting on Saturday in Irene, Pretoria, Mantashe said the party had arranged for members of the NEC to deal with this. "We are trying to assist the process to go very fast." He said the party was confident that its branch general meetings (BGM) would meet the looming deadline for leadership nominations. He dismissed allegations of violence at BGMs saying that this year's meetings had seen minimal violent attacks compared to the build-up to the Mangaung and Polokwane elective conferences. Also read: ANC members frustrated with nomination processes as deadline to elective conference looms The NEC was meeting to discuss its draft of the party's organisational report which would be tabled at the upcoming elective conference in December. The NEC meeting, which is set down for Saturday to Monday, is also expected to cover the current crisis in the Eastern Cape as well as disputes in the lower South Coast of KwaZulu-Natal. "At this point in time we are in the middle of discussions and various views are coming," Mantashe told journalists. He said the NEC would communicate its decision on the Eastern Cape shortly. Also read: ANC conference likely to collapse as taxpayer money used to 'grease the wheels' - Trevor Manuel Disgruntled former Eastern Cape Provincial Executive Committee members have appealed its elective conference, which took place in October. The conference was labelled "a festival of chairs" by deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa after chairs were thrown at delegates during the adoption of credentials. Seven delegates were taken to hospital during the violent scenes.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  