Jenni Evans Noluvo Swelindawo (Facebook) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - The trial of the man accused of the kidnapping and murder of Cape Town woman Noluvo Swelindawo continued in the Western Cape High Court on Thursday, with dramatic testimony about a fight between her brother, the accused, and his family shortly before death. Swelindawo was found shot dead at a footbridge in Driftsands near Khayelitsha on December 4, 2016 after being taken from her home in Sophakama, a nearby informal settlement. At the time, the LGBTI community feared she may have been a victim of a hate crime because she was a lesbian. Sigcine Mdani, also from Sophakama, was arrested on December 5 and has pleaded not guilty to the charges against him. Investigating Officer Simphiwe Thubeni testified on Thursday that Swelindawo, who was known as Vovo, had sent her brother Bongo a WhatsApp message before she died, saying that she was not at work because her face was swollen after she was assaulted. She told her brother that Mdani, whose nickname was "Maseven" was the culprit. When asked why, she responded that she did not know. Bonga was at an end-of-year stokvel function when he received the message. He left and went to Mdani's home to ask him what had happened. But Mdani's parents were the only ones there. "He said he came to find out about a fight between Noluvo and Sigcine. That's when they started pushing him to the outside of the house. They started assaulting him," testified Thubeni. Bonga told the detective that he went home to fetch his knobkerrie and returned to Mdani's house, where there was another confrontation with the accused's parents. Mdani arrived home and when he saw what was happening, took a knife out of the cupboard drawer, and allegedly stabbed Vovo's brother in the face, Thubeni testified. Bonga fell to the ground and tried fighting back, and the brawl only ended when neighbours arrived and intervened. Thubeni said that Mdani was identified as a suspect by Vovo's partner, Nqabisa Mkatali. She had been staying over with Vovo and recognised the accused's face and voice the night their house was broken into and Vovo was allegedly kidnapped. He said that Mkatali knew Mdani from the local car wash. The trial continues on Monday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  