Thick smoke on Cape Town roads as a result of spreading fires. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Ex-acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane in another corruption scandal and Qedani Mahlangu has been suspended by a banking school for the ‘seriousness of allegations about the Life Esidimeni tragedy against her’.  Here are today’s top stories. PICS: Power supply to Gordon's Bay and Sir Lowry's Village disrupted A fire has spread across an extensive area of vegetation on mountain slopes along Sir Lowry’s Pass, the City of Cape Town said. See here. Mahlangu suspended from UK banking school over Life Esidimeni allegations The Global Banking School in Bedfordshire in the United Kingdom confirmed that it has suspended Qedani Mahlangu, citing the seriousness of allegations about the Life Esidimeni tragedy against her as a reason. Read more here. EXCLUSIVE: 'Corrupt' company sponsored Zuma's birthday parties President Jacob Zuma's birthday parties in 2015 and 2016 were sponsored by controversial facilities management group Bosasa. Read the exclusive here. 'We are just about a gangster state' - Jacques Pauw speaks about sizzling The President's Keepers revelations Investigative journalist Jacques Pauw stands by the allegations contained in his recently-released book and says he is prepared to seek punitive costs orders against that State Security Agency (SSA) if it approaches the courts for an interdict against him. Watch the video here. R5bn in contracts allegedly paid to company accused of buying Phahlane cars The businessman who allegedly paid for ex-acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane's vehicles has, according to IPID, received at least R5bn in tenders for the SAPS since 2010. Read more here. Some Boks just not good enough - Ollie le Roux Former Springbok prop Ollie le Roux has voiced his concerns about the strength of rugby in South Africa. Read more here. 3 scenarios for SA's immediate future There are three ways of looking at the immediate future: the glass is half full; the glass is half empty and losing volume; and there is a hole at the bottom of the glass, so it won't help to try and fill it. Read more on this opinion piece here. What authors really earn: the problem with book piracy While The President's Keepers is no doubt selling considerably well, downloading illegal copies hurts authors and the book publishing industry alike.  Read more on W24 here. WATCH: Frustrated Kruger lion slaps car after lover's tiff This video shared by Latest Sightings proves why your vehicle's windows should always be closed when exploring Kruger National Park or any other game reserve. Watch here. Jessica Nkosi's rep: She's an innocent bystander Local actresses Jessica Nkosi and Phindile Gwala have found themselves at the centre of a social media storm, after a video surfaced of the actress flashing wads of money with the so called "Bling Bandits" online. Read more here. Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  