Setumo Stone Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. (Leon Sadiki, City Press) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     As a director in Gauteng’s education department, Abner Mosaase’s day job involves supporting youth entrepreneurship and skills development.  But at night, he is one of the chief lobbyists for Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s ANC presidential campaign. Every Friday, Mosaase drives from Gauteng to places such as Hermanus in the Western Cape, Prieska in the Northern Cape, Marble Hall in Limpopo and Ross Mission in the Eastern Cape, where he shares the stage with senior campaign leaders and speaks to ANC members about why Ramaphosa’s election at the national conference in December is a “make or break” for the governing party.  Sometimes the campaign meetings are in Gauteng, so he does the spadework during the week.  “We are all over,” he says.  “We operate like the holy spirit.”  In summing up the message of the #CR17 campaign, he says: “We need to defeat the quadruple ills that will collapse the ANC – greed, crass materialism, conspicuous consumption and ostentatiousness.  “So, we are reclaiming the ANC’s core values.” Mosaase wants government to work for the people, not for the “parasitic patronage network of the Guptas”, friends of President Jacob Zuma.  He also wants to put a stop to “the high levels of corruption entrenched in government”.  He warns that if the ANC takes the wrong path in December, it will die a natural death like the Pan Africanist Congress and the Azanian People’s Organisation. He bemoans the radical economic transformation rhetoric of Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma’s #NDZ17 campaign, saying it stands for “radical economic anarchy”.  “We do not need radical economic anarchy punted by Dlamini-Zuma, who wants to take us the Zimbabwe route.  "We want radical economic transformation led by ‘thought leaders’ and not ‘body leaders’, who come with many people and think they are leading.” He concedes that one of the successes of the #NDZ17 campaign, assisted by Zuma, has been the introduction of the debate on “white monopoly capital” in the ANC.  So powerful has the debate become, ANC members often request the Ramaphosa camp to explain its position on the subject. Mosaase says: “We are being asked if there is anything called white monopoly capital. Of course there is, but there is also monopoly capital.  "And in the context of South Africa, because of colonialism of a special type, the oppressor and the oppressed lived together.  "Therefore, race relations had a role to play in the economy. “But you cannot say that in India or Uganda or Nigeria monopoly capital is white, because it may be black.  “So, in ideological terms there is no white monopoly capital, but monopoly capital. But because it exists in South Africa, we acknowledge that it is there.” He says Ramaphosa is the best person to lead the quest to reclaim the ANC’s values. “He is the best because he is the only one armed with all three aspects that will make society succeed: he is a former worker leader; he is armed with an understanding of the law; and he is a businessman.  “So, we are bringing [to the fore] a holistic person who understands that government business and civil society should operate in a parallel but equal way to salvage our people from conditions of destitution and squalor.”  Mosaase says the Ramaphosa campaign marks a make-or-break moment for the ANC.  “If Ramaphosa does not win, we should know that society is going to punish us.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  