'Be careful... you can die,' Mugabe threatens ex-VP Mnangagwa Harare – Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has threatened his former vice president and long-time ally Emmerson Mnangagwa with death, says a report. Speaking to his supporters outside the ruling Zanu-PF headquarters in Harare on Wednesday, Mugabe said that they were "grave consequences for those who were trying to succeed him", reported New Zimbabwe.com. The veteran leader said that they were "no short cuts in becoming a leader of the people". Read more on this story here  LATEST: Sacked Mnangagwa 'holds the light to a new and prosperous Zimbabwe' Johannesburg - The faction riddled war veterans head Chris Mutsvangwa has called on the diaspora to help restore legitimacy and democracy in Zimbabwe following the sacking of vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa from his post on Monday. Mutsvangwa was speaking during a press briefing in Sandton on Wednesday. "[President Robert] Mugabe is not the owner of the party, he was not chosen to be the leader of the party by Zanu-PF - he was chosen by the war veterans. Another leader was jettisoned by the war veterans in 1995 - we are evoking the same precedent," he said.  Read more on this story here  AUDIO: 'It's one thing to dismiss a VP but it's another when it affects the stability of Zim' Harare – Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader Morgan Tsvangirai has said that he is worried about stability in the southern African country following the sacking of vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa from his post this week. President Robert Mugabe on Monday fired his deputy as tensions between Mnangagwa and the veteran leader's wife Grace to succeed him intensified. For more on this story click here  Zanu-PF expels Mnangagwa – reports Harare – Zimbabwe's former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa has been fired from the ruling Zanu-PF party, reports said on Thursday. According to NewsDay, Zanu-PF party spokesperson Simon Khaya Moyo said that the decision was endorsed during a politburo meeting held on Wednesday. This came two days after Mnangagwa was fired by President Robert Mugabe, 93, from government for various allegations that included undermining the nonagenarian. Read more on this story here  Nigeria's president urged to free ailing Shiite leader Lagos - Nigeria's government was on Thursday urged to order the release of a pro-Iranian Shiite Muslim group leader, who has been in custody for nearly two years since clashes with soldiers. Ibrahim Zakzaky, who heads the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, and his wife should be freed "on health grounds", lawyer Femi Falana said in a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari. The cleric lost the sight in his left eye during two days of unrest in the northern city of Zaria in December 2015 in which soldiers allegedly killed more than 300 IMN members. For more on this story click here  Mugabe hails renaming of Zimbabwe's main airport after him Harare - President Robert Mugabe on Thursday unveiled a plaque to commemorate the renaming of Harare International Airport after himself. The change of name was an "honour", the 93-year-old president said, after he drew open some gold curtains covering the commemorative plaque to the flourish of music from a police brass band. "May I on behalf of government, the people of Zimbabwe and my own behalf, thank most sincerely the ministry of transport for the honour bestowed in me by renaming the Harare International Airport to Robert Mugabe International Airport," he said, in quotes carried by the state-run Herald online. For more on this story click here  DRC says election pressure due to foreign 'greed' for cobalt Kinshasa - The Democratic Republic of Congo on Wednesday said foreign "greed" for its cobalt lay behind the "malicious" pressures weighing on the country's electoral process. The DRC is in the grip of a crisis over plans to hold presidential elections, which were delayed by President Joseph Kabila's refusal to step down on the expiry of his second and final term last December. Under a compromise deal, the vote was scheduled to take place this year. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  