
        Zimbabwe continues to celebrate following President Robert Mugabe's resignation after 37 years as head of state. Former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa is set to arrive in the country and is likely to be sworn in as president. Follow the live updates. 
     ALSO READ:AS IT HAPPENED: Britain offers help for Zimbabwe after Mugabe 'oppression' ALSO READ: FULL LETTER: Robert Mugabe's resignation notice  
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 From AP:  Zimbabwe's incoming leader Emmerson Mnangagwa emerged from hiding Wednesday, departing from South Africa to return home in preparation to take power after Robert Mugabe's stunning resignation. The 75-year-old Mnangagwa fled Zimbabwe after Mugabe fired him earlier this month, leading the military to move in and kick off a series of extraordinary events ending in Mugabe stepping down Tuesday amid impeachment proceedings. Mnangagwa met with South African President Jacob Zuma in a jovial "courtesy call" before taking a private jet from Johannesburg to Zimbabwe's capital, Harare. He was said to arrive at Manyame Air Base, while cheering crowds gathered at ruling party headquarters. He will be sworn in as Zimbabwe's new president Friday morning, the speaker of parliament said, after the ruling Zanu-PF party notified him of its nomination of Mnangagwa to replace Mugabe until the end of the current term next year. Soon to be President of Zimbabwe, Emmerson Mnangagwa has landed at Manyame airbase where he has met army generals for debriefing. Mnangagwa will leave for Zanu PF headquarters where he is expected to meet the Zanu PF’s politburo and address a crowd that has been waiting since 13:00 for his arrival. - AP Supporters await the arrival in Harare of Zimbabwe's recently fired vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa.
 Mnangagwais is set to return Wednesday to be sworn in as the country's new
leader after Robert Mugabe announced his resignation in the middle of
impeachment proceedings again him on Tuesday. (AP) President Zuma met with Emmerson Mnangagwa in Pretoria just before he (Mnangagwa) left for Zimbabwe. WATCH THE VIDEO  #ANC Mantashe: I get worried when ex-colonisers get excited about changes in Africa... think Theresa May & her "Oldest friend" statement @TeamNews24 #ANC Mantashe: reconstruction in Zimbabwe must be done by the people of Zimmbabwe @TeamNews24 #ANC Mantashe Mnangagwa was not hosted by SA or ANC, he stayed in SA @TeamNews24 Former Vice-President of #Zimbabwe, Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa paid a courtesy call on President Jacob Zuma before heading back to Harare, Zimbabwe on Wednesday, 22 November 2017. GCIS pic.twitter.com/wBzPP3hrsx Zimbabwe's
incoming leader Emmerson Mnangagwa has just departed from an airport in South
Africa to make his return to his country. An Associated Press witness
saw him depart, shortly after Mnangagwa met with South African President Jacob
Zuma.
 Mnangagwa is set to arrive at
a military air base in Zimbabwe's capital, Harare, and will be sworn in Friday
morning at a local stadium.
 South Africa's presidential
office has just tweeted photos of Mnangagwa and Zuma shaking hands and smiling. - AP Mantashe says ANC has been worried by series of incidents in Zanu since the expulsion of Mujuru. "When Emmerson was removed we were taken aback. But there was no discussion between ANC and a section of ZanuPF over the removal of Mugabe" Mantashe says the ANC should support the transition in Zimbabwe and the party will work with the new administration of Emmerson Mnangagwa ANC Sec Gen Mantashe says what happened in Zim was a coup, despite whatever it is being called, but the ANC is happy that there was no bloodshed. Born in the
southwestern Zvishavane district on September 15, 1942, Mnangagwa completed his
early education in Zimbabwe before his family relocated to neighbouring Zambia. His grandfather was a
traditional leader and his father a political agitator for the repeal of
colonial laws that disadvantaged blacks. In 1966, Mnangagwa
joined the struggle for independence from Britain, becoming one of the young
combatants who helped direct the war after undergoing training in China and
Egypt. He was arrested and
sentenced to death but his sentence was later commuted to 10 years in prison
because of his young age.
 After independence in
1980, he directed a brutal crackdown on opposition supporters that claimed
thousands of lives in the Matabeleland and Midlands provinces.
 The Gukurahundi
massacres remain the biggest scar on his reputation among many Zimbabweans.

He once remarked that
he had been taught to "destroy and kill" - although he later claimed
to be a born-again Christian. - AFP Mnangagwa's rise to
the top comes after decades of experience under Mugabe since Zimbabwe won
independence from Britain in 1980. In the early days,
Mugabe appointed Mnangagwa, a young trainee lawyer, as Zimbabwe's first
minister for national security.
 After that, he held a
host of different cabinet positions - but relations between him and his
political mentor were not always easy, and the younger man was no stranger to
presidential purges. In 2004, he lost his
post as administrative secretary in the ruling Zanu-PF after being accused of
openly angling for the post of vice president.
 But it was during the
2008 elections that his fortunes really began to change, when he was serving as
head of Mugabe's election campaign. Mugabe lost the first
round vote, and Mnangagwa allegedly supervised the wave of violence and
intimidation that forced the opposition to pull out of the run-off vote. In the same year, he
took over as head of the Joint Operations Command, a committee of security chiefs
which was accused by rights groups of organising violence to crush dissent. He was targeted by EU
and US sanctions imposed on Mugabe and his close allies over the elections and
the ensuing violence but was promptly handed control of the powerful defence
ministry. - AFP Nicknamed "the Crocodile" for his ruthlessness, Emmerson Mnangagwa who will take over as Zimbabwe's next president, is a hardliner with ties to the military who could prove as authoritarian as his mentor Robert Mugabe. It was his political ambition to take over which set off a bitter succession battle between him and Grace, the president's 52-year-old wife, triggering the crisis that toppled the autocrat, who resigned on Tuesday. When Mnangagwa was dismissed as vice president by Mugabe on November 6, it initially looked like he'd been outfoxed by the first lady, forcing him to flee the country. But the situation quickly turned on its head, with his dismissal triggering a military takeover and mass street protests, which ended with Mugabe's ouster and Mnangagwa catapulted to centre stage. With the nation still reeling from Mugabe's lightning demise, the 75-year-old was to make a triumphant return home on Wednesday and be sworn in as president on Friday. A former close Mugabe ally, Mnangagwa's fall from grace appears to have been engineered by the first lady, who lobbied her husband to back her own political ambitions. It was the climax of a long feud between the pair over who would replace the ailing and increasingly frail 93-year-old leader.But Mnangagwa's dismissal alarmed the army, with the generals quickly moving in, staging a military takeover which brought him down within days. - AFP Just in : ED Mnangagwa Will make an address at the ZanuPF HQ late this afternoon #EDreturns A Zimbabwean journalist, Wilf
Mbanga, who lives in exile in South Africa, says the fall of Robert Mugabe as
Zimbabwe's president means it is time for his fellow countrymen to return home. It’s time for every Zimbabwean
now to plan to go back to rebuild our country, which has been destroyed by
Mugabe through greed and avarice. - BBC The Speaker of the National Assembly, Advocate Jacob Mudenda has fulfilled the constitutional requirement of informing the nation of the resignation of President Robert Gabriel Mugabe. https://t.co/4Ll38EhyZb EDITORIAL CARTOON: Many..many..many attempts later... #MugabeResigns via @ndula_victor pic.twitter.com/tIvO59g1Cq Mudenda said that, according to Zimbabwe's constitution, the presidential nominee has to be nominated by the party of the former president. This nominee must then to be sworn in within 48 hours. - BBC Zimbabwe's parliamentary speaker says he has been formally notified by the ruling Zanu-PF party that Emmerson Mnangagwa will be sworn in as president on Friday. A group that monitors the country's parliament was at the press conference where Jacob Mudenda refused to take questions. - BBC This press conference is to inform the public on the transition of power in Zimbabwe pic.twitter.com/sE7aTmX0uN Scenes from Manyame Airbase as we await the arrival of Former Vice President ED Mnangagwa #EDreturns @263Chat @matigary pic.twitter.com/elMSd1QNN3 #Zimbabwe [WATCH] BREAKING: Emmerson Mnangagwa to be sworn in on Friday - Parliament Speaker Jacob Mudenda #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/M2KaF0x5V5 ???? Crowds are gathering at Manyame Airbase to welcome Mnangagwa home #MugabeResigns pic.twitter.com/7lx9lmIO5i Embrace the new system yes, but do so with utmost sobriety #Mugaberesigns #ZimbabweIndependence  #twimbos 
                Jump to
                top
            