DA mayoral candidates Herman Mashaba and Athol Trollip. (Lizeka Tandwa, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Ramaphosa gets backing from Eastern Cape ANC; Matshela Koko alleges Gwede Mantashe's daughter was a beneficiary of Kusile corruption and Prince William’s reaction to Prince Harry’s engagement.Here are today’s top stories: LIVE: DA's Athol Trollip survives no confidence vote The vote of no confidence in Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip has been unsuccessful. He has been congratulated by Herman Mashaba, who is facing a vote of no confidence in Johannesburg.  Follow the live updates here Zuma condemns 'scourge of modern day slavery' in Libya President Jacob Zuma has condemned the "scourge of modern day slavery" in Libya and has called on other world leaders to do the same. Read here Gelant, Du Preez to start for Boks Warrick Gelant and Dan du Preez will get their first starts for the Springboks in the final Test of 2017, against Wales at the Principality Stadium in Cardiff. Sport24 has more here Eastern Cape ANC backs Ramaphosa The ANC in the Eastern Cape has nominated Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed President Jacob Zuma as the next ANC president. Read more here Koko alleges Mantashe's daughter was beneficiary of Kusile corruption Suspended Eskom executive Matshela Koko said he was targeted because of his actions to fight rampant corruption at the Kusile power station. Read more on Fin24 Zuma laughed when the ANC lost metros in the elections – Makhosi Khoza When the ANC lost metros during the August 2016 local government elections, President Jacob Zuma "didn't see anything wrong", Dr Makhosi Khoza revealed. Read more here Massive delays, overcrowded trains and theft frustrate Cape commuters A 22-minute drive between Philippi and Epping can take up to three hours for Metrorail commuters travelling on the embattled passenger railway network. Watch here Prince William's hilarious reaction to Prince Harry's engagement Prince William had a typical brotherly reaction to Prince Harry’s engagement, that proves the royals are just like us. Watch here Benni lashes out at City of CT in scathing open letter Cape Town City head coach Benni McCarthy has hit out at the City of Cape Town in an open letter after his side was being forced to play a "home" fixture in Durban. Read the full letter here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  