Mxolisi Mngadi Hawks. (Theana Breugem, Media24, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – A 34-year-old former department of Home Affairs employee is facing the law for allegedly issuing fraudulent permits to foreign nationals at an asking price of about R10 000 per permit, the Hawks said. “It is alleged that during 2015 the suspect who originates from Kensington, near Cape Town, allegedly manipulated the department’s administration system and issued permits to foreign nationals at an asking fee of just over R10 000 each permit,” said Hawks spokesperson Captain Lloyd Ramovha in a statement released on Friday. He said comprehensive investigations resulted in the arrest of the suspect on Friday, November 3. “She has been warned to appear in the Cape Town Regional Court on November 30 to face charges related to corruption and fraud,” Ramovha said. It was not immediately clear whether the permits were for the foreigners to be allowed to work, open businesses or to stay in the country as Ramovha’s phone rang unanswered on Saturday. Meanwhile, three former Drakenstein Municipality employees made a brief appearance at the Bellville Specialised Commercial Crimes Court on Friday facing charges of prepaid electricity fraud amounting to almost R600 000, he said. He said a couple aged 38 and 35 and another man, 57, allegedly sold pre-paid electricity to Paarl residents at a cheaper rate for the whole of 2015. “In the same period they allegedly colluded and produced illegal replacement prepaid electricity tokens on the system to disguise their unlawful activities. The municipality lost approximately R600 000 as a result,” said Ramovha. He said the trio was apprehended by the Serious Commercial Crime Unit of the Hawks on October 25 following investigations. “They are expected to appear in court on December 11 to face about 1342 counts of fraud,” Ramovha said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  