Amanda Khoza Dr Makhosi Khoza (Lindile Mbontsi, Gallo Images, Daily Sun) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Former ANC MP Makhosi Khoza on Thursday said the ANC would not self-correct at its upcoming elective conference in December because "all presidential hopefuls were part of the rot". "That is why they fail to take a stand when called to do so," said Khoza. Speaking at the Standard Bank Business Breakfast at Monte Casino, Khoza said that on the day of the vote of 'no confidence' against President Jacob Zuma, she knew the ANC she grew up in had been claimed by patronage politics and corruption. ALSO READ: No ANC leader will emerge without signing a pact with the devil – Makhosi Khoza "The soul of the ANC was gone," she said. Khoza, who resigned from the ANC in September, said: "We have to accept that there are good men and women in the EFF, COPE, the NFP, the UDM, the IFP… There is a need for us as South Africans to find a new vehicle that will be able to take us to the prosperous society we wish to live in." She added that, since resigning, she had been approached by several people, including other parties, asking her to form a movement. 'Let us fix this place' "We need a political home that can unite us as South Africans and can grow the economy...I am hoping that you will invest your time and energy to save this beautiful country. We have nowhere else to go; you will never find a place like this. Let us fix this place. South Africa belongs to all who live in it." Khoza, who became associated with the ANC at the age of 12, said: "The rule of law and the fight against injustices are part of the mandate that we should carry as the human species. We have the intelligence that other species do not have. ALSO READ: For the ANC to learn, it must first die and then 'resurrect like Jesus' - Makhosi Khoza "We are the choices we make." Ruling the earth, said Khoza, did not mean committing injustices. She said: "I am convinced there is no dignity in unemployment, corruption, junk status, state capture…" Khoza said the countrywide march that called on Zuma to step down was a sign that the country's democracy was growing. Khoza closed her chapter in politics after the party came down on her for publicly criticising Zuma and corruption in the government.  RELATED VIDEO - WATCH: 'Alien' ANC undoing what we fought for - Makhosi Khoza   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  