Caroline, Josh and motoring journalist, Ernest Page during a driving lesson. (Screen grab) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Severe weather conditions shut SA and Lesotho boarder; Zimbabweans remain hopeful and the Springboks go into Saturday's Test against France in Paris having not played in the country since 2013. Here are today’s top stories. #Zimbabwe: 'We want someone who can make this country prosper again' Zimbabweans woke up on Friday morning, hopeful that the change they had been anticipating this week would have been realised following a meeting between President Robert Mugabe, the South Africa Development Community (SADC) and other officials. Read more here and follow live updates here. Bok record in France suggests tight affair The Springboks go into Saturday's Test against France in Paris having not played in the country since 2013.  Sport24 as more here. Driving lesson #2: Miss Caroline learns how to launch an Audi RS 3  Earlier this month, News24 reported about a Cape Town man taking his family’s helper, Caroline Ndlovu, for her very first driving lesson. This time she joins high performance motoring coach/motoring journalist Ernest Page.  Watch here. ALERT: SA border to Lesotho shut due to heavy snowfall  The department of home affairs has confirmed South Africa and Lesotho have taken a joint decision to close the Qasha's Nek Port of Entry due to adverse weather conditions caused by a heavy snowfall.  More on Traveller24 here. We are giving Mugabe an ultimatum - War Veterans chief Zimbabwe War Veterans chief Christopher Mutsvangwa has warned of 'fireworks' on Saturday, as President Robert Mugabe continues to dig in his heels after the army stepped in this week in an attempt to force the veteran leader to step down. Watch here. SAA closely monitoring Zim situation South African Airways (SAA) has confirmed that its flight operating schedule to the country has not been disrupted by the current political climate in Zimbabwe. Read more here. WP Rugby ‘has sold Newlands’ - claim Embattled Western Province Rugby have had to move to deny to their clubs that, despite rumours swirling to the contrary, an agreement is already in place over the sale of Newlands. Read here. Gordhan positive about Ramaphosa's choice of running mates ANC national executive committee (NEC) member Pravin Gordhan has seemingly endorsed Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa's choice of running mates for the ANC's top six positions.  Read here. Still no Post Office, Sassa grants deal despite govt deadline The South African Post Office will likely have to wait until next week before an official agreement to assist with the state's social grants scheme can be reached with Sassa. More here. Pauw anticipates second wave of action to clamp down on his book Author and investigative journalist Jacques Pauw says that for about 10 days, some of those who have threatened legal action against him have been silent, but he thinks this is because they are coming up with new strategies on how next to confront him. Read more here. Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  