Luthando Vikilahle  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Zimbabweans of all races, clad with the country's flag, stretched out their hands towards Zimbabwe's parliament to pray for a smooth transition into a new government at the Africa Unity Square in Harare on Monday.
WATCH Cape Town - The Mo Ibrahim Foundation released its 2017 Ibrahim Index of African Governance (IIAG) on Monday, saying the continent’s Overall Governance trajectory remains positive on average, but in recent years has moved at a slower pace.   The eleventh edition of the IIAG looks at both country and indicator trends over the last five years (2012-2016), within the context of the last decade (2007-2016). In an interview with News24, Mo Ibrahim Foundation board member Jay Naidoo said that they were gradual improvements regarding governments on the continent.  Naidoo said that people had to be vigilant and hold their government accountable.  "There are gradual improvements in how the continent is being governed. People have to be more vigilant onhow they are being governed," said Naidoo. Click here to read the full report Over the last ten years, 40 African countries have improved in overall governance. In the last five years, 18 of these – a third of the continent’s countries and home to 58% of African citizens – including Ivory Coast, Morocco, Namibia, Nigeria and Senegal, have even managed to accelerate their progress. Lack of adequate policies   In 2016, the continent achieved its highest overall governance score to date of 50.8 out of 100.0 points. According to Naidoo the report was compiled using credible data and is reliable.  Said Naidoo: "The data that was used to compile the report is reliable. The data comes from very reputable organisation which include the United Nations and AU (African Union)."  He said that lack of adequate policies, conflict and poor education were among the main reasons for the slow down in progress. At least 31% of the African population wer young people who were under the age of 15; therefore the "governments have to invest more in education", said Naidoo.  "These are real issues that are absolutely a cause for concern. There has to be stability on the continent for business to come in and invest. They are other issues such as corruption. The continent loses nearly $50bn annually due to illicit financial flow and that is a issue of concern,"said Naidoo.   According to Naidoo, African governments had to redesign their education systems in order to cater for the needs of the economy.  "We have to redesign our education system. We have to decentralise our economies too. This will help create jobs for our young people. The only way that we can do that is when we have the political will and integrity,"said Naidoo.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  