Iavan Pijoos Former deputy of higher education and training minister Mduduzi Manana (Gallo Images, The Times, Alon Skuy)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Activists have called on former deputy minister of higher education and training Mduduzi Manana to step down as an ANC MP after he was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment or a R100 000 fine. "We are calling on President Jacob Zuma, this man can no longer sit as a member of Parliament. We can't have women beaters sitting in the highest office of the land," Not In My Name chairperson Siyabulela Jentile said outside court.  Manana was sentenced in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Monday. Read more here: Manana to pay R100 000 or face 12 months in jail The gallery was filled with family, friends and supporters clad in ANC T-shirts.  Manana appeared calm during sentencing proceedings. Magistrate Ramsamy Reddy ordered Manana to undergo 500 hours of community service at an organisation called Valued Citizens Initiative and to complete an anger management programme.  Reddy had also ordered Manana to pay all compensation fees to the three women he attacked at a night club in August.  Manana had to pay Noluthando Mahlaba R5 014.20, Mandisa Duma R20 263.34 and Thina Mapipa an amount of R1 403.92.  The payments needed to be made within seven days.  'No one is above the law'  "No one has shown any remorse towards the victims. The man showed us that he is arrogant," Jentile said.  He said the case against Manana should have been used to send a strong message to people who abuse women.  "This is the point where a strong message should have been sent out that South Africa does not and will not tolerate gender-based violence."  On September 13, Manana was convicted of three counts of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm after pleading guilty to the charges. The charges relate to the assault of three the women at Cubana in Fourways on August 6 which was filmed and went viral on social media, sparking a national outcry for his arrest.  Manana claimed he was provoked after one of the women called him "isitabane", a term used derogatively to refer to people in the gay community.  National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said after court proceedings that Manana's case showed that no one was above the law.  "We believe that a few lessons can be drawn from this matter; one of them is that no one is above the law and that violence against women will not be tolerated," Mjonondwane said. Here's what people had to say on Twitter:   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  