
        The cross examination of chief pathologist Deidre Abrahams has intensified in the Western Cape High Court as defence Advocate Graham Van Der Spuy proposed tough questions about Susan Rohde's autopsy.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 VD Spuy is asking for adjournment.  Defence will see judge in chambers. Court resumes Wed 10am @TeamNews24 #Rohde defence says State should also have taken brain sample from Susan in determining her cause of death. @TeamNews24 We're hearing about the blood found in Susan #Rohde's stomach. Abrahams says she cannot remember if the blood from her stomach was put back in her body in a bag, or if it was discarded. Adds that sometimes run out of the bags so do not put each organ in separate bag @TeamNews24 ICYMI: Van der Spuy previously accused Coetzee-Khan of not taking samples that could have helped exonerate Jason Rohde. The defence wanted to know why the State had not done a number of procedures, including taking certain tissue samples or a sample of the blood found in her stomach. Another procedure referred to was where water was used to check for bubbles coming out of the chest cavity. Abrahams says that the other factors included in Coetzee-Khan coming to his finding was that there were also signs of manual strangulation. @TeamNews24 Rohde defence says "Forensic Medicine 101" says you can't use lividity to say in what position a person died.  Also, lividity could start after person taken down shortly after hanged self. Depends on a whole host of circumstances. Abrahams agrees. VD Spuy, #Rohde's defence, turns to State pathologist Dr Akmal Coetzee-Khan's finding that post mortem showed that Susan died in a supine, or lying down position. Not consistent with death in an upright position (this is re suicide by hanging defence) @TeamNews24 Waiting for Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe who is presiding over the #Rohde trial. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/Alt5RYDInU WHAT HAPPENED IN COURT SO FAR: - The defence has cross examined chief pathologist Dr Deidre Abrahams, questioning her objectivity regarding her opinion of Reggie Perumal's second autopsy report. - The cross examination intensified, with the defence asking Abrahams if she would tailor her findings in favour of the State, since she is being paid. - 'Irrational, unconstitutional, biased' - words used by defence to describe Abrahams' opinion on second autopsy report.Abrahams has told the court she deleted some of her notes while calculating Susan Rohde's time of death. - Judge approaches Van Der Spuy's conduct during cross examination and threatens to report him. - Van Der Spuy says witness evades the questions.Susan's time of death (and methods of calculation) is once again under scrutiny by the defence. Court will resume after short interval. The "pathologist's Bible" which is often referred to during the #Rohde trial @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/HIc2dLQIGu Dr VD Spuy asks very saggies for a short comfort break. Back at 13:20 @TeamNews24 Defence says that there is a 95% probability that Susan Rohde died between 2.52 and 8.28 and that it is totally misleading for defence to narrow it down to 5.40. Time of death calculation v important re timeline of events at Spier before Susan died #Rohde @TeamNews24 Now the defence whips out the big blue Knight's Forensic Pathology.  Turn to page 84 if you just happen to have one on your desk. Refers to the Henssge Nomogram which helps calculate time of death. Pathologist Abrahams is doing some calculations regarding Susan Rohde's time of death. (I would not be able to do numbers under such stress) @TeamNews24 Judge threatens #Rohde defence adv Van der Spuy that she will report him to the Bar Council for way he is cross examining pathologist Dr Abrahams. VD Spuy had asked very loudly about notes taken re temp readings at Susan's death. He says Abrahams evades questions. @TeamNews24 Rigor mortis is the third stage of death once the heart stops beating. The muscles of the body naturally start to stiffen. It usually occured 2 or 3 hours after death. Rigor mortis is one of the factors used to determine possible time of death.  Going through the process of rigor mortis again, as defence goes over time of death of Susan #Rohde again @TeamNews24 Dr Abrahams being grilled over the list of 5 drugs tested for on Susan Rohde. Defence asks her to bring to court the testing kit, testing strips, instruction pamphlet on how to interpret the strips. Defence says first time Abrahams wrote anything down regarding Susan's Rohde's death was in an affidavit dated 6 Oct 2017 to say she had commented on colleague Akmal Coetzee-Khan's autopsy report. VD Spuy making jibes about her "good memory" @TeamNews24 ICYMI: This is not the first time Susan Rohde's time of death has come under scrutiny in court by the defence. The State pathologist, Dr Akmal Coetzee-Khan, who examined Susan Rohde's body following her death in July 2016, previously admitted under cross-examination that he made a mistake in calculating her time of death. He said he used the cooling of body temperature to estimate that Susan passed away at 05:40 on July 24, 2016, with 95% accuracy. Using this technique, Coetzee-Khan calculated that Susan passed away somewhere between 02:00 and 08:00 that day, and used the mean time as her time of death. Van der Spuy said Coetzee-Khan's statement that his calculated time of death is 95% accurate was a lie. State pathologist confirms that she deleted some of her notes while calculating Susan #Rohde's time of death. She says she did not do so intentionally.  @TeamNews24 #Rohde trial back on. Defence says Abrahams' opinon of Dr Perumal's private autopsy report is irrational, unconstitutional, biased. She disagrees. @TeamNews24 Here is some background on the Biko report: https://t.co/0d6MVmfvEI VD Spuy says a second autopsy was conducted privately when Steve Biko was murdered, by Dr Jonathan Gluckman. The family arranged it. The Judge asks to see the legal team in chambers @TeamNews24 ICYMI: When Abrahams took the stand last week, she effectively tore to shreds the report of KwaZulu-Natal pathologist Dr Reggie Perumal, who conducted the second autopsy on Susan’s body. She said Perumal's report mentioned the history of the case at the time, that she had hung herself, before he even conducted the autopsy. "It may be an alleged history but not a factually proven history," she said. #Rohde defence says Abrahams's conduct by accusing Perumal of negligence is "outrageous" and  constitutes unprofessional conduct. VD Spuy v annoyed by "hired gun" insinuation". @TeamNews24 Abarahams says forensic pathologists are supposed to be neutral and impartial.  Some info in Perumal's report based on what accused told him about Susan #Rohde's, says Abrahams. She thinks there is a problem with this @TeamNews24 #Rohde defence throws Constitution at her (not literally) on #Rohde's right to challenge evidence, engage independent pathologist. Abrahams says one of discrepancies was that time of death was "obtained from the accused" @TeamNews24 Advocate Graham van der Spuy starts cross examination with Abrahams after they exchange greetings. VD Spuy specialises in the medical aspect of the #Rohde trial @TeamNews24 Dr Deidre Abrahams, chief Pathologist for Paarl in charge of West Coast/Winelands to be cross-examined by Jason #Rohde's defence over autopsy on his wife Susan's body @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/HZvhHAsH8f Jason #Rohde's trial resumes today @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/UiRP5cOumP ICYMI: Pathologist's cross examination in Rohde trial halted The Western Cape High Court trial of murder accused property mogul Jason Rohde has been postponed. The postponement was granted to give Rohde’s defence team an opportunity to prepare to cross examine a pathologist, who observed the autopsy on his wife Susan.  Rohde is accused of murdering Susan at Spier Wine Estate in Stellenbosch on July 24, 2016. In the witness stand is Dr Deidre Abrahams, who is the chief pathologist in charge of the Western Cape government's Winelands and West Coast regions.  
                Jump to
                top
            