Emmerson Mnangagwa. (File: AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Former Zimbabwean vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa in exile in an unknown
location has told President Robert Mugabe in a statement on Tuesday that the
current political and constitutional crisis in the country is not a matter
between him and the veteran leader.  Mnangawa, who indicated that he was not returning to Zimbabwe
until his security was guaranteed, said that the current crisis in the country was in fact
between the people of Zimbabwe and Mugabe. "The people of Zimbabwe have clearly spoken on this matter.
To me the voice of the people is the voice of God and their lack of trust and
confidence in the leadership of President Mugabe has been expressed. Several
groups including students, general workers, opposition party members, vendors,
religious organisations and ordinary citizens led by our war veterans, our
party members in Zanu-PF, civic society, and all races of colour and creed in
Zimbabwe clearly demonstrated without violence their insatiable desire to have
the resignation of His Excellency, Cde Robert Gabriel Mugabe," said Mnangagwa.  Mnagagwa said that the people of Zimbabwe had spoken with
one voice. Military takeover  "It is my appeal to President Mugabe that he should take
heed of this clarion call by the people of Zimbabwe to resign so that the
country can move forward and preserve his legacy," said Mnangagwa.  Mnangagwa’s
statement came after the country’s army chief Constantino Chiwenga said that progress
had been made in talks towards an apparent deal over Mugabe's exit. Chiwenga
also said that Mugabe was in touch with Mnangagwa. Mnangagwa’s ouster triggered the military takeover and Mugabe's
loss of power. "The security services are
encouraged by new developments which include contact between the president and
the former vice president... who is expected in the country shortly,"
Chiwenga said. "Thereafter the nation will be
advised of the outcome of talks between the two." Chiwenga called for calm after
Zimbabweans had celebrated on Saturday at huge anti-Mugabe marches that would
have been brutally repressed just a week ago. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  