Luthando Vikilahle  Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe.  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe’s critic Sten Zvorwadza has welcomed the military intervention, but says that a civilian interim government should be installed soon.  In an interview with News24, the National Vendors' Union of Zimbabwe chairperson said that he was "excited" over the recent developments in the country. “What the military has done is the right thing. I can joyfully say that there is no coup in Zimbabwe. The military has exercised its constitutional mandate of mitigating a situation that would have led into a bloodbath,” said Zvorwadza. READ: Mugabe under 'heavy guard' as situation deteriorates in Zim He called on fellow citizens to rally behind the current developments as the situation with President Mugabe’s party would have led into a "bumpy process going forward". According to reports, two distinct camps had emerged in Zimbabwe’s revolutionary party in recent years, as factions sought to outwit each other in the race to succeed the 93 year-old leader.  Ex-vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa  allegedly was leading a faction that angled itself to succeed Mugabe, while another grouping made up of young Turks, commonly known as Generation 40, was backing First Lady Grace Mugabe to succeed her ageing husband and wanted to torpedo Mnangagwa’s presidential ambitions. Mnangagwa was appointed vice president in 2014, taking over from Joice Mujuru - who was axed after Grace launched a campaign accusing her of plotting to topple the president. The first lady then turned on Mnangagwa when she recently declared that the ex-vice president should be gone from both the government and Zanu-PF before the party's extraordinary congress in December. The first lady’s utterances subsequently led to Mnangagwa’s ouster with the government accusing him of "disloyalty and being untrustworthy". Subsequent to Mnangagwa's removal, the military issued a statement warning Mugabe against purging ex-freedom fighters from Zanu-PF.  READ:  AS IT HAPPENED: Zanu-FP rejects coup claim, accuses army chief of 'treasonable conduct' But Mugabe's inability to act led to the military taking over the government on Tuesday in what it has described as a sweep against criminal elements surrounding the veteran leader.   “With what has been happening in the ruling party we would have degenerated into chaos and a bloodbath. The military has used its constitutional mandate and intervened. Zimbabweans must understand that this could lead to our salvation,” the anti-Mugabe activist said.  Zvorwadza said that he remained hopeful that the army would hand over power to a civilian ruled government after its clean up.  He has also praised the southern African country’s defence forces for their “outstanding professionalism “in dealing with civilians. READ:  Zimbabwe war vets group wants Mugabe recalled The situation was relatively peaceful despite soldiers barricading sections of the central business district where most of the government offices, including Parliament and Mugabe's office, are situated.  “The military has been extremely professional in dealing with civilians. The language that they are using is very professional and shows that they know what they are doing. We would, however, need an interim government to guide the republic into a free, fair election". President Mugabe, who is under house arrest after the military took control, led Zimbabwe to independence. But his decades in power have turned a country known as the breadbasket of Africa for its produce, into an economic basket case, where many go hungry. “Mugabe has overstayed his welcome even though he could see that he was no longer fit to execute his duties. I am confident that we are going to move towards a democracy. In my honest view I think the military is going to hand over power to civilian rule,” added Zvorwadza.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  