Space-X's Falcon 9 rocket with 10 satellites launches at Vandenberg Air Force Base, California. (Matt Hartman via AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Miami - SpaceX on Thursday postponed the launch of a secretive US government payload known as Zuma, a mission whose nature - and the agency behind it - is a mystery. "We have decided to stand down and take a closer look at data from recent fairing testing for another customer," SpaceX said in a statement issued late on Thursday about two hours before the planned launch window was to open. The fairing is the nose cone part of the rocket that protects the payload. "Though we have preserved the range opportunity for tomorrow, we will take the time we need to complete the data review and will then confirm a new launch date." SpaceX and the Pentagon did not respond to requests for comment about the nature of the mission. - Read more: Americans to send Zuma to space Northrup Grumman, the maker of the payload, said it was for the US government and would be delivered to low-Earth orbit, but offered no other details. SpaceX is no stranger to national security launches. Earlier this year the California-based company headed by South African-born billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk launched a spy satellite for the National Reconnaissance Office, and an X-37B space plane for the US Air Force. After liftoff, SpaceX will attempt to return the first stage portion of its Falcon 9 rocket to Earth for a controlled landing on solid ground near Cape Canaveral. If successful, it will be the 20th upright touchdown for a Falcon 9 since the company began its effort to recycle costly rocket parts and make spaceflight more affordable. - Meanwhile, in South Africa, President Jacob Zuma answered questions in the National Council of Provinces on Thursday.  Standing down on Zuma mission to take a closer look at data from recent fairing testing for another customer.  Though we’ve preserved the range opportunity for tomorrow, we’ll take the time needed to complete the data review and then confirm a new launch date.  Falcon 9 and Zuma went vertical last night on Pad 39A. Now targeting November 16 for launch — rocket and payload remain healthy, and the teams will use the extra day to conduct additional mission assurance work. pic.twitter.com/EHHq2rMZ4g  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  