Kaveel Singh Magistrate's court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – A foreign national man and a woman appeared in the Durban Magistrate's Court on Tuesday, accused of murdering two 10-year-old boys. Liziwe Ngwayishe, 33, and Ali Yusaf, 46, both made their first appearances in a packed Court 10. Their co-accused, Amahle Maliwa, 28, appeared in court on Monday. Read: Woman appears in court for murder of 2 Durban boys All three are accused of murdering, kidnapping and assaulting - with intent to do grievous bodily harm - two 10-year-old boys - Njabulo Mankayi and Luyanda Msomi. Mankayi was found on Monday morning in the Grunter Gully Canal in Bayhead, south of Durban, while Msomi was found in a bush in Montclair, Durban, on Saturday. During their appearance on Tuesday, Yusaf appeared submissive, keeping his head down at all times. He was wearing an old McLaren racing bomber jacket and faded baggy blue jeans. Ngwayishe, on the other hand, appeared nonchalant and eager to conclude proceedings. She wore a black skirt and covered her top half with a white shawl. There was a brief discussion in court regarding Yusaf's place of residence. Yusaf alleged that an arresting officer assaulted him when he was taken into custody. Ngwayishe and Yusaf will appear in court on November 20 again, while police further investigate the matter. The boys went missing last week Tuesday, before their bodies were discovered. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said that Mankayi's body was found by a Transnet pollution officer. His family had come to the scene and identified the body, said Mbhele. Mankayi had no visible injuries, but "the post-mortem would determine the cause of death", Mbhele said. Mbhele said investigations had led police to the canal on Sunday, but they couldn't find Mankayi's body because the canal was flooded. Msomi and Mankayi, who were both Grade 3 pupils at Clairwood Boys Primary School, were last seen boarding a bus home on Tuesday last week.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  