Emmerson Mnangagwa (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabwe's former home affairs minister,
now the leader of the opposition Zapu party, Dumiso Dabengwa, has reportedly said that a
military coup "cannot be ruled out" in the country following the sacking of
former vice president Emmerson Mnangagwa. According to VOA, Dabengwa said that it was likely that most
Zimbabweans could back this move "as they are tired of President Robert Mugabe's
rule".  Dabengwa said this at the launch of the Dumiso Dabengwa
Foundation in Bulawayo. Mugabe on Monday fired his deputy as
tensions between Mnangagwa and the veteran leader's wife Grace to succeed him
intensified. Grace declared over the weekend
that Mnangagwa should be gone from both the government and
Zanu-PF before the party's extraordinary congress in December. 'Democratic elections'  Addressing thousands of indigenous
church followers during what was termed a "Super Sunday Rally" at a
stadium in Harare, Grace described Mnangagwa as a "liquidator", and "ravisher" whose coup plots could be traced to 1980. According to the state-owned
Herald newspaper, that was the time when he reportedly "unsuccessfully attempted
to wrestle power from President Mugabe soon after the country's democratic
elections".   Mnangagwa was the leading contender to
succeed Mugabe, 93, but his abrupt removal appeared to
clear the way for Grace to take over. The
government-owned Chronicle newspaper published an excoriating
editorial on Tuesday, accusing Mnangagwa and his supporters of being
"prepared to stampede President Mugabe from power". "The President had warned his
deputy time and again to desist from having grand designs to seize power
unconstitutionally," the Bulawayo-based paper said. It accused Mnangagwa of
"running parallel structures within the ruling Zanu-PF party and fomenting
divisions". Mnangagwa, 75, a veteran party
loyalist who had strong ties to the military, had not yet commented on his
dismissal. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  