Pam Magwaza The rat race to the upcoming ANC national conference has been a memorable one this year. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, who has been vying for the presidency against former African Union Commission head Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, he recently named his running mates at a rally in Sekhukhuneland, Limpopo on Sunday. The most surprising nomination, however, was that of current science and technology minister Naledi Pandor as his deputy president. The minister’s name immediately began trending on Twitter and users didn’t hold back when it came to voicing their opinions on the nomination. Here are some of the funny and more serious tweets about Cyril Ramaphosa’s decision:   President Cyril Ramaphosa and Deputy President Naledi Pandor, it will be a twang festival in our potential future Presidency. Naledi Pandor is a solid cadre!! Ramaphosa should be her deputy instead, not vice versa Ramaphosa choosing Naledi Pandor is a brilliant move ????THREAD Naledi Pandor is an excellent choice. Forget celebrities, think about good governance and delivery. She's a committed civil servant #CR17 The very same Naledi Pandor who delivered the 38.9 Oros person as the ANCYL president??...& refused Lamola a recount?? ??????..#asilibelanga I support Cyril Ramaphosa' slate but Gwede Mantashe as a chairperson BIG NO, Mantashe can't be trusted. Naledi Pandor as Deputy President ???? I am not sure how the leadership style of Naledi Pandor wud impact the functioning of government. I remember when I worked in government in Pandora's department.She was generally very aloof & hostile. I hear you we shouldn't forget that we have other ministers and MP not benefiting from Zuma who didn't voice out there opinion it doesn't mean that naledi pandor eats from the hand of Zuma just because she didn't voice out her opinion about him. I guess Naledi Pandor will be the DP of the opposition party in 2019. I'm fine with that Naledi Pandor is not a bad choice, but Gwede Mantashe is bad news. Very bad 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  