Zohra Teke, News24 CorrespondentThe front gate of the home in Durban where a parcel bomb exploded. (Kaveel Singh, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban- eThekwini&rsquo;s deputy mayor Fawzia Peer has called on Muslims in South Africa to be more vocal in their condemnation of terrorism.Addressing an inter-faith function by the Turkish organisation, Turquoise Harmony Institute in Durban, Peer said there was a need for serious introspection and dialogue on terrorism and the role of Muslims in speaking out against this.&nbsp;&ldquo;How do Muslims extend their hand of friendship to people of other faiths when terrorism today defines a Muslim? &nbsp;The absence of Muslim communities vociferous responsiveness to and initiating conversation, especially in South Africa, over the issue of so-called Islamic terrorism may lead to a misguided belief that the silence of Muslims on this critical matter is actually consent,&rdquo; said Peer.Terrorism, said Peer, was not a religion and affected people of all faiths across the world, including Muslims.&ldquo;As deputy mayor of our beautiful city and chairperson of the city council&rsquo;s security and emergency cluster, I have also commenced with the task of terror risk analysis to determine the level of threat we face in our city. &nbsp;We must be proactive and understand what risks we face so that we can prepare accordingly,&rdquo; announced Peer.This follows a recent bomb attack on a Durban family which left several people seriously maimed. The bomb was delivered by a courier to their residence packaged as a gift with flowers for the target, 47-year-old Saleem Khan who was not home at the time. Instead, the package was opened by his 22-year-old son who remains in hospital with critical brain injuries. Khan&rsquo;s daughter-in-law and mother were also injured but are said to be recovering well.Khan told Media24 he suspected the attacker to be a former close family friend who may have become disgruntled as a result of a business deal.&nbsp;The case has shocked both investigators and the public due to the high level of sophistication and organisation in making of the bomb.&nbsp;&ldquo;This was not an ordinary person looking through the internet. It is the work of a professional and our fear is that it could happen to someone else if we don&rsquo;t stop it. We need to get to the person. We are close and have done most of our investigations but cannot disclose more until the arrests,&rdquo; said Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi. &nbsp;&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.