Siphelele NketoPhoto: siphelele nketoHarry Gwala Mayor Mluleki Ndobe gives the budget speech. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Siphelele@media24.com THE Harry Gwala District Municipality Mayor, Mluleki Ndobe said announced additional funds for projects in Greater Kokstad, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Ubuhlebezwe andUmzimkhulumunicipalitieswhen he tabled his 2017/18 mayoral budget speech at a council meeting in Ixopo last Friday. He also said jobs will be created for unemployed young people and women. At this year s Back to Basis Awards held by Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs,HarryGwalaDistrictMunicipalitywas awarded for the best municipal transformation and institutional development for attaining 100% in the 2015/16 IDP assessment. The award has put the district among municipalities with the best IDPs, and we aim to be the best, said Ndobe. He said the municipality has implemented a paperless environment where councillors and municipal officials were given Tablets to access agendas for scheduled meetings. In the next five years the municipality will complete construction of many projects, including a backup website, the upgrading of ICT infrastructure and implement training interventions to close the skills gaps. He allocated Greater Kokstad R28.2 million, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, R151 million, Ubuhlebezwe R60.3 million and Umzimkhulu R84.9 million. The projects for Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma Municipality include Mqatsheni Water Supply, Gala Water Supply, Bulwer-Donnybrook Water Supply Scheme, Underberg Bulk Water Supply, Upgrade Phase Two and Ingwe Household Sanitation. In Kokstad includes the Horseshoe Sanitation Project and Makhoba Bulk Water Supply. He said the Rhawuwa Horse Racing Track will be built in the district. A total of R300 000 is set aside for bursaries and R100 000 for the next annual Harry Gwala Marathon. At the next Harry Gwala Marathon we want to hand over vehicles to the first male and female home. The municipality also set aside R200 000 for students who are in Cubato study medicine, said Ndobe. UmzimkhuluMunicipalitydeputy mayor and ANC councillor, Sindisiwe Nkala said monitoring is needed to avoid incomplete projects. The council also emphasised the need to support local contractors. THE Harry Gwala District Municipality Mayor, Mluleki Ndobe said announced additional funds for projects in Greater Kokstad, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Ubuhlebezwe and Umzimkhulu municipalities when he tabled his 2017/18 mayoral budget speech at a council meeting in Ixopo last Friday. He also said jobs will be created for unemployed young people and women. At this year s Back to Basis Awards held by Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Harry</p> Gwala</p> District</p> Municipality</p></p> was awarded for the best municipal transformation and institutional development for attaining 100% in the 2015/16 IDP assessment. The award has put the district among municipalities with the best IDPs, and we aim to be the best, said Ndobe. </p> He said the municipality has implemented a paperless environment where councillors and municipal officials were given Tablets to access agendas for scheduled meetings.</p> In the next five years the municipality will complete construction of many projects, including a backup website, the upgrading of ICT infrastructure and implement training interventions to close the skills gaps.</p> He allocated Greater Kokstad R28.2 million, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, R151 million, Ubuhlebezwe R60.3 million and Umzimkhulu R84.9 million. The projects for Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma Municipality include Mqatsheni Water Supply, Gala Water Supply, Bulwer-Donnybrook Water Supply Scheme, Underberg Bulk Water Supply, Upgrade Phase Two and Ingwe Household Sanitation.</p> In Kokstad includes the Horseshoe Sanitation Project and Makhoba Bulk Water Supply.</p> He said the Rhawuwa Horse Racing Track will be built in the district. A total of R300 000 is set aside for bursaries and R100 000 for the next annual Harry Gwala Marathon.</p> At the next Harry Gwala Marathon we want to hand over vehicles to the first male and female home. The municipality also set aside R200 000 for students who are in Cuba to study medicine, said Ndobe. Umzimkhulu Municipality deputy mayor and ANC councillor, Sindisiwe Nkala said monitoring is needed to avoid incomplete projects. The council also emphasised the need to support local contractors. THE Harry Gwala District Municipality Mayor, Mluleki Ndobe said announced additional funds for projects in Greater Kokstad, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Ubuhlebezwe and Umzimkhulu municipalities when he tabled his 2017/18 mayoral budget speech at a council meeting in Ixopo last Friday. He also said jobs will be created for unemployed young people and women. Umzimkhulu 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.