The Van Breda murder trial continues at the Western Cape High Court for day 26 of the proceedings. Jump to bottom Desai asking about any other evidence besides Mr Reade-Jahn not recognising it. Combrink says only Precious confrmed the axe in the house, Combrink says.You went to the scene to process marks and damage? Yes, Brown says.You then gave an opinion regarding the type of damage. Yes, she says.Combrink says he doesn't know. There was possibly more than one axe.You dont know the condition of this axe before this incident. No, Brown says.Evidence by Mr Reade-Jahn saying he remembered a black axe.Desai asks if he thinks there was a second axe.Photos of the room being looked at.You didn't go on your hands and knees to look for pieces? No, Brown says. She looked at the floors below the area she had looked at and the open area.Court resumesIf on top, it would have had to be afterward and after it had dried, Combrink says.You found the scene not as WO Hitchcock found it. Your deduction would have to be that that piece landed on a dry shoe print?&nbsp;if it was like this, yes. Defence expert Kobus Steyl has thrown it, 1.5m away. Without spinning, it hit straight into the surface, Combrink says.&nbsp;It had a 25% chance of landing on its blade when it was thrown, Brown says.&nbsp;It's one in four, Combrink says.Have you ever thrown this axe? Combrink asks.Brown says it wasn't asked of her.Do you see a quarter chance as highly unlikely?&nbsp;That's not a throwing axe.Matthys says he consulted with an engineer. Different types of bricks, mortar. Brown says there are building regulations.Brown says she looked at the the mark in its entirety, the substrate, where it was, what the component of substrate was, and the length, width, depth, and impact in its entirety. Certainty of direction, the force, the particles found to be vaporised, the plaster which was cut through to expose the brick, the course of the marks, beginning and end of markings.Taking into account its a plastered surface, not homogeneous. There are pieces that will break out.&nbsp;Difference between controlled and uncontrolled - direction and force.&nbsp;Could axe have been thrown? She said it was highly unlikely. Why?Martin weighed 120kg. 4 people carried Marli down - girl of 74kg.If they put down scoop while carrying Martin, could it have caused damage? It could have, Brown says. Any sharp edge could have caused it.We know the axe is not what caused the damage on the stairs, Combrink says. Brown refuses to exclude it, saying she cant testify on someone else's photos.Combrink says says 'Vir iemand met 'n nuwe hammer, lyk alles soos 'n spuiker'. Tells Brown the appropriate thing would have been to obtain medical scoop and to compare the edgesThe tiles damaged, whether by gurney or axe, I processed everything. There were not sure if it was the gurney, that is why I processed everything.No, you processed the axe, Combrink says. Jump to top