Iavan Pijoos, News24The DA's John Moodey (Lisa Hnatowicz, Beeld) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; The Democratic Alliance has hit back at the ANC in the West Rand following the election of the new mayor of Mogale City Local Municipality during a council session on Wednesday."We may have lost the mayoral seat but with our coalition partners, we remain completely committed to serving the residents of Mogale," DA Gauteng leader John Moodey said on Thursday.Speaker Patrick Naga Lipudi was elected mayor on Wednesday evening.&nbsp; Lipudi received 39 votes and the DA's Michael Holenstein, 36. Two votes were spoilt. Lipudi is the third mayor to be elected since August. DA councillors underwent lie detector tests to determine who had voted with the ANC to depose him. DA councillor Brandon May did not go through with the test, and instead sent his letter of resignation to Lipudi, the party said at the time. A scheduled council meeting to elect a new mayor was cancelled last week after the DA, Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) were a no-show. According to Moodey, since the party took over the municipality in August 2016, they had exposed corruption, stopped fruitless and wasteful expenditure and set about putting service delivery systems in place. Moodey said Lipudi had refused to recuse himself at the sitting on Wednesday evening, instead, insisted on having councillors vote by using a stamp instead of a pen &ndash; the result of which was a number of spoilt votes which may otherwise not have been spoilt. He still believed that the ANC has not won complete control over Mogale City.DA and residents 'worked tirelessly'On Thursday morning, ANC deputy chair Mzi Khumalo said the DA and Economic Freedom Fighter coalition has failed the people of Mogale city Moodey said the DA remained committed to working with other opposition's parties and the events of Wednesday had given them no reason to doubt their partners. "The DA-led coalition together with the residents has worked tirelessly to put together an Integrated Development Plan (IDP) and budget that would serve the needs of the residents and not officials and cadres."Moodey said during their tenure they had prioritised a R15m electrification project for the 2017/18 financial year which included a R3m 20 MVA transformer and substation upgrade.&nbsp;Also, R35m budgeted for water projects including pipe repairs and a rural water strategy and almost R80m had been budgeted for sanitation projects.&nbsp;The party budgeted R17m for projects to deal with roads and storm water systems - R4m to be spent on the Western Rural Area roads and R12m on the Kagiso Extension 3 area. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.