Mahlatse Gallens, News 24ANC NEC members Jessie Duarte and Gwede Mantashe. (File, Gallo Images) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories "Radically transforming the structure of [the] economy, it&rsquo;s not going to leave us unscathed. There will be a push back from people who have benefited from the economy for decades. So we need a leadership with strength of character, strength of mind, backed by good policy, to say the time has come for more black people to take ownership of the means of production," Duarte said.&nbsp; "It can&rsquo;t be right that a minority owns the means of production and the minority itself is comfortable with that. They must be part of changing and be a part of the solution, but initially, they will be against it. We need leadership to make them part of [the] solution." Internal party challenges On the issue of land, the party is divided on whether Section 25 of the Constitution needs to be amended to allow for expropriation of land without compensation. Duarte said implementing land policy shouldn't create "civil strife".&nbsp; "We know, all over Africa, the minute that land redistribution question has arisen, leadership of that country has been demonised by the entire world because that was the whole purpose of colonisation, and to give it back to the people of the country is a hard thing to do," Duarte said.&nbsp; The ANC would dedicate two days to deal with internal party challenges, including gatekeeping, the use of money to buy votes, manipulation of membership systems, and slates in succession battles.&nbsp; This is despite party stalwarts and former Umkhonto we Sizwe commissars pulling out of the consultative conference after the ANC NEC rejected their proposal to separate it from the policy conference. They are expected to hold their consultative conference in August. &nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.