Simon Sonnekus, Netwerk24Ludi Vink, Netwerk24 Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - If Ludi Vink should meet his murderer again, he would definitely have forgiven him, the Vink family said outside the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court, south of Johannesburg on Tuesday."Ludi wasn't malicious. He would've said: 'Don't worry Mom..I'm happy and I forgive him," said Danlee Vink.Ludi was hit in the eye with a snooker cue in Mitzy's Biker Club in Alberton in February this year. He was admitted to hospital where he was declared brain dead, Netwerk24 reports. The family donated his organs.Battle to functionDanlee, Lute, his dad and Anet, his stepmother, said that it was difficult for them to attend the court case.Lute said: "My son was a friendly, innocent lad. He would never ever harm anyone.""We just want justice," he said.It has been difficult for the Vink family the past few months without their son.Lute said: "There's tears every day. Ludi's death has influenced me to such an extent that I battle to function properly."Danlee, a hairdresser, said it was difficult to reply to questions from people who were interested in the matter."It's physically difficult to stand and deliver a service and still talk about it as well...it's really difficult."Anet said the family was trying in these difficult times to stand together.Zest for life"We're trying to cry together and talk and support one another. We've started a support group to help support one another," she said.They said apart from the family support, they're also getting a lot of support from people who saw the incident captured on CCTV.The footage spread like wildfire on social media in February.Anet said: "We plan to have T-shirts made before the next court appearance with the words 'Justice for Ludi' and a picture of him. We want everyone who knew him to remember him for his zest for life."The hearing continues on July 13.*- Dani&euml;l &ldquo;Danny&rdquo; Olivier faces a charge of murdering Ludi. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.