How to tell if it’s a real job opportunity or an ugly scamPHOTO: SUPPLIED Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories WITH several elaborate job scams plaguing­ the internet, it’s safe to say we can all do with a few tips to ensure we conduct a safe job search. Follow the advice here, use your common sense, and when in doubt check with the recruiting company to find out if the vacancy is legitimate or fake. If it’s too good to be true, it’s probably a scam. Also, if the “hiring manager” is requesting important documents urgently or if the information being asked for is making you feel uncomfortable, or something just doesn’t seem right, proceed with caution. Research the company you’re applying to. As part of your job-hunting process, you should naturally research the company you’re interested in before sending personal information. Look at the company’s website and search for the company’s name along with the words “scam”, “fraud” or “complaints”. — Careers24. red flags you should be aware of: • The company wants to hire you without interviewing you. • Grammar and spelling in the actual job advertisement is terrible. • When you are meant to start, your employer tells you they’re abroad and need you to run errands for them. • You have to provide the employer with credit card, bank account numbers and personal information. • You didn’t contact them, they contacted you. • You’re offered an incentive — often a large sum of money — for using your bank account to transfer money or deposit cash. • They tell you they’ve deposited a large sum of money into your account, but it might take a week or two to reflect. • You’re promised a six-figure salary for doing little to no work. • The job advert looks valid, but the contact e-mail (e.g. sam@gmail.com) does not match the company’s website domain (e.g. sam@XYZLimited.com). • The job advert is about how much money you’ll make rather than what your duties and responsibilities will be. • You need to pay fees for a uniform or induction — anything that involves you having to pay for a job application is fraudulent. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  