ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe. (Deon Raath, Gallo Images, City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ANC policy papers point to a party in a panic about losing power The documents released ahead of the upcoming policy conference of South Africa’s governing African National Congress expose a panicking party that sees enemies everywhere. While previous policy conferences addressed real policy issues, all energies are now focused on retaining state power as the leadership faces damning claims of capture by a kleptocratic elite.The discussion documents show a party that professes a desire for self-correction and renewal. But, it seems to have neither the guts, nor the necessary internal balance of forces to do so, writes Christi van der Westhuizen. Read more. A good story to tell about a better life to all As they head to its policy conference members and leaders of the African National Congress (ANC) confront the toughest set of economic and political circumstances that have faced South Africa since 1994. The economy is in recession and the close correlation between changes in levels of per-capita GDP and confidence in the future of country means that it is haemorrhaging support. But it was not always that way. Relative to what South Africa is living through today the first fifteen years after 1994 coincided with a remarkable economic recovery and sharp rise in living standards, writes Frans Cronje. Read more. The shenanigans and deceit by the ANC in Gauteng Twenty three years into democracy the pundits and the ordinary people of Gauteng are feeling bold enough to foretell the death of the ANC in our province. This was almost unimaginable just a decade ago.There are already tell-tale signs that the demise of the ANC in Gauteng is nigh, and like the Titanic it is headed straight for an iceberg.it is important as we head towards the 2019 elections to remind the leadership of Gauteng that White Monopoly Capital has never had the interest of the ANC or black people at heart, and want the ANC OUT OF POWER. Quite frankly, a word of caution to Mashatile and Makhura is that white supremacy merely uses our ANC in Gauteng to ensure it entrenches its influence in the upcoming national elective conference as a means to control the state and it will dump and vilify everybody as soon as the new leader is chosen.Beware of the antics of White Monopoly Capital, it is anti-poor and anti-black and it will spit you as soon as it chews you, writes Matome Chiloane. Read more. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  