Amanda Khoza and Iavan Pijoos, News24The Naidoo family. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Seven months before Rakiel Naidoo was found dead, she had suffered the loss of her younger brother and father. Rakiel's burnt remains - along with her mother Melanie Naidoo, 51, and her uncle Gregory Naidoo, 57 - were found bound and gagged in Centurion on Tuesday. &nbsp; Their suspected murders come a month after Rakiel, 23, lost her father. Her brother died at the end of 2016. Private security company Suburban Crime Prevention&rsquo;s Clive Maher told News24 that the family had gone through a tough time. The family went missing on Sunday, in what is believed to have been a robbery and kidnapping. Maher said the incident occurred between 17:30 and 20:30 on Sunday. He said information revealed that a Toyota Quantum had arrived at the home in O&rsquo;Brien Street in Northcliff. "It appears as though, either the driver had access to a gate remote, or the family opened for them. The vehicle went into the premises." Rakiel was dropped off by a friend around 19:30. "No screams were reported to have come from the premises... we believe there was blood found in the house." Suspect possibly known to familyBetween 20:00 and 20:30, the Quantum left the premises, along with the family&rsquo;s Mercedes Benz. "One of the phones were thrown into a veld and has not been recovered." Maher said he believed that the suspect was known to the family. The family owns a building called Motor City in Langlaagte, he said. News24&nbsp;reported on Tuesday that the family had confirmed that the burnt remains belonged to the Naidoos. A prayer service with close relatives was held on Tuesday night. The family released a statement on Wednesday morning confirming that they had identified the remains of their relatives by their clothing and other body parts. Shaniel Naidoo said, "We have made no facial recognition and are still waiting on the results from all the testing that has been done. "We are relying on the police to answer this and put to rest all speculation currently circulating. For now, we await the positive identification of our family. We want to thank the Northcliff community and everyone for their generous and sincere efforts." The police, however, said that they had not positively identified the remains as those of the Naidoo family. Tributes pour in News24 earlier reported that the Naidoos were expected to be laid to rest on Wednesday, however, it has been learnt that the bodies have not yet been released to the family. Tributes have been pouring in for the family members, with devastated staff members at Rakiel's former school, Northcliff High School, describing the young woman as beautiful and bright. "We are absolutely devastated. Our teachers knew her very well, all the teachers are heartbroken by what happened to the family," said a staff member, who asked not to be named because they were not authorised to speak to the media. "She was a great girl, beautiful and vibrant. She loved hockey and cricket and her coaches cannot believe that this happened." Some of her friends on Facebook posted tributes on her profile page. "R.I.P Rakiel Naidoo... You were taken from us so terribly&hellip; and you will be truly missed&hellip; Thinking about you and your family Simone Raghunath. Gone too soon but never to be forgotten." Another post read, "Rakiel Naidoo, you were one of the most amazing people I had the privilege of knowing. You were selfless, loving and caring. Everyone who knew you knows that you always looked for the good in others. Thank you for always being there for me, thank you for the laughs and thank you for the memories that I will treasure forever. I Love You." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.