Lethiwe Makhanya People at the gathering against lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders in Scottsville on Friday. PHOTO: SUPPLIED Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A NEW groundbreaking report by the Love Not Hate programme has revealed that more than 55% of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) South Africans fear discrimination due to their sexual orientation or gender identity. This report was presented on Friday at St Alpheges in Scottsville at a gathering hosted by the Gay and Lesbian Network, Pietermaritzburg. It indicates that 44% of LGTB are discriminated against in general, 20% are physically abused and 88% of these crimes or incidents are not reported. Lerato Phalakatshela from the Love Not Hate programme said this report was launched in November last year. He said hate crimes and discrimination against LGBT are increasing. “What  we  found  is  quite  shocking. “The level of hate crime is high not only against homosexuals, but also against disabled people. “It is shocking that people are still being discriminated and harassed because of their gender. “It is important that people from different organisations fight this in a collective voice. “If you fight alone they may not hear your voice,” he said. Phalakatshela told gays and lesbians­ to work together in fighting discrimination and hate crimes against LGBT. “If we work together we might be able to achieve greater results. “We have laws that are supposed to protect us. “People of all groups must find ways to help us fight this. “Government needs to implement the laws in Parliament.” He revealed that 10% of gays, lesbians and homosexuals are being discriminated at health institutions, which impacts negatively on their lives, because should they need medical­ attention they don’t go and get it  because  they fear being discriminated against. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  