Jackie Kruger, Netwerk24The two mares keeping Cody company. (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories George - Cody, a horse burnt in the Knysna fires - and then survived in the wild for 16 days, before walking home on his own along the N2 - now has two old friends to help him recover from the ordeal, Netwerk24 reports.The mares - Filly and LG - come from the same farm as Cody. On June 7, when the fires started, they were moved to a nearby farm, where they have been cared for until recently. It was pure delight when the two were reunited with Cody for the first time since the fires on Tuesday.- Read more: Burnt Knysna horse walks home along N2"Cody is very pleased to have friends to keep him company," said his owner, Karen Rademeyer. "He will be kept separate from them until his wounds heal, but Lilly and LG are some of his favourites, and he was excited to see them."When the fires broke out on June 7, Cody and four other ponies belonging to Karen Rademeyer, were chased into a nearby plantation because, at the time, they couldn't be captured. All the other horses on Rademeyer's farm, along the N2 between the Rheenendal turn-off and Buffalo Bay, were caught and led to safety. The plantation into which the ponies ran wasn't on fire at the time and Rademeyer thought they would find the animals there later.However, the wind changed direction and the plantation burnt for four days in the same area where the horses had last been seen.Search&nbsp;Rademeyer didn't give up and, on a daily basis, used thermal imaging, aircraft and drones to search for the animals.Then, just after 10:00 on Friday, someone saw Cody walking along the N2, headed for the farm. He just had another 100m to go. Rademeyer said he had been in a shocking condition, burnt, exhausted, very hungry and parched. "It was very emotional to see him like this, but I just realised how determined he had been." Cody was taken to a vet, who is satisfied to his progress so far.&nbsp;Meanwhile, Rademeyer is hard at work, trying to repair fences so that her other horses can be brought back to the farm as well. The other four horses &ndash; Cheeky, Bella, Milu and D&eacute;j&agrave; Vu &ndash; are still missing. They could be anywhere from Brenton to Groenvlei, or even further inland in the Elandskraal and Barrington areas.Anyone with information is requested to please contact 082 877 1716 or 081 360 7279.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.