The Van Breda murder trial continued at the Western Cape High Court for day 25 of the proceedings. Follow News24 journalist Tammy Petersen on Twitter for the latest updates:&nbsp;@TammyPetersen87&nbsp; Jump to bottom Important for her to understand how the axe was manufactured as well as the damages that she saw when examining it. On the blade area, on the top part of the blade, there is damage to the "nose" [top part of the blade edge] - a little nick in the metal.&nbsp;It's possible, Brown says. Desai asks if this would bring about a unpredictable result. She says the possibility is there.Likelihood? Brown says it would be highly unlikely. Possible, but highly unlikely.The brick behind the plastered area was exposed inside the impact mark. The impact was deep and therefore the brick was exposed. So basically the area it would strike, the impact mark would have to move beyond the 10 to 15mm plaster area in terms of SANBS and would expose this brick.What I am saying... any object flying through the air decelerates in velocity and speed. When take into account laws of motion, one would definitely expect with a object that has weight, flying through the air, landing on sharp edge side to have force applied on it.She came to conclusion of a sharp edge tool after looking at mark in its entirety., where the mark was - eastern side wall above the staircase rail inside the house.She looked at the impact and its surroundings damage, &nbsp;its length, its width, the depth of the mark and where on the wall the impact mark was situated, the characteristics and the impact.Note: these are only the first of the markings.Referring to her first report. Photos of one impact mark of sharp edge tool movement above the staircase rail. Close up of photo with top edge of the axe placed into the mark.Capt Brown handled uncleaned axe to try and determine if it caused damage at front door entrance wall. She couldn't confirm this. #VanBredaFigure 2; same damage viewed from adjacent wall;figure three is taken closer; figure 4 is in the middle of the mark close up;figure 5 is from the entrance side of the mark;figure 8 depicting the damage of the axe being help with the top edge of the axe into the sharp edge damage; figure 9 is the adjacent wall with a close up of the top part of the blade of the axe being kept in damage marked.Captain Brown has the axe in her hand.The area one would use as the handle was 34cm in length; the axe eye (butt) was 4.8cm; &nbsp;from butt to the top edge 15cm; sharp edge 3.4cm.She observed one piece of painted cement laying on the floor at front door entrance; one impact mark with damage caused by adjacent to front entrance area.One piece of painted cement on staircase; an impact mark consistent with sharp edged movement above staircase rail; powder particles, like cement powered particles on staircase rail.A piece of tile fragment on staircase with same appearance of tile on staircase floor; impact damage and particles consistent with breakage damage on the 17th stair; impact damage consistent with a sharp edged tool movement in the tile area in the first bedroom.Piece of tile fragment on staircase floor lying in debris ; one impact mark in bedroom.She visited the scene in January 2015. She was on standby and got a call to go to 12 Goske Street. She was told an axe was used at a murder scene and there were impact marks they wanted her to examine. Jump to top