Julian Jansen, Netwerk24 Sunita and Jacques van Dyk. (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - The wife of a Paarl principal arrived at the
home near Wellington where Jacques and Sunita van Dyk had burnt to death and
removed her late friend’s handbag and bank card from a car and the house, Netwerk24
reported.  Eloise le Roux, the wife of Danie le Roux, the principal of
Paarl Gymnasium Primary, then withdrew R4 000 from Sunita’s bank account.   It was at the request of Sunita’s mom, Susan Marais, Eloise
said on Saturday. Marais confirmed that Eloise had given her the money and bank
card. “Mrs Marais was supported financially by Sunita and she
urgently needed the money,” Eloise said. She did not reply to a written question about where she had
acquired Sunita’s PIN number. Several reports had surfaced that Eloise was at the scene on
the morning after the fire in May and removed items from the house. She had also brought a locksmith to open Sunita’s car to
remove the handbag. Cellphone mystery  Meanwhile, Sunita’s cellphone, which she’d had with her the
previous evening and which she’d used to text friends, has gone missing. Rapport has reliably learnt that a private investigator who
has been appointed by Jacques’ brother Reghard to investigate the deaths, is in
urgent need of it. On the evening before her death, Sunita told two friends
that something had happened which upset her and that she would tell them about
it the following day. The WhatsApp messages on her phone could possibly offer a
clue to unravelling the mystery. Four cellphones and a laptop were found in the gutted house,
but not Sunita’s cellphone. “The scene was like a free for all. Everyone just
took,” a detective with information on the case said. Eloise admitted that she was one of those who had been in
the house, but says she had permission from the police. “I was escorted by a
firefighter who indicated where we could go and where not. There were other
members of the public with us.” Eloise said a police captain had given her a small bag with
three rings in, which she also gave to Marais. Marais asked her to remove her late husband’s ashes from the
safe. The owner of the farm refused that we get access to the
house for a second time to remove the ashes. I immediately left.” 'False information' Eloise says she knows nothing about a missing cellphone. She suspects that it is the possession of “an anonymous
source who is providing the media with false information”.    After Sunita’s death, it was revealed that she had been
involved in an “obsessive relationship” with a person who she merely identified
as “Danie” in WhatsApp messages. Sunita was a teacher at Paarl Gymnasium Primary. Danie le Roux has denied that it was him. However, Sunita’s
friends are adamant that he is lying and challenged him to take a lie detector
test. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  