Eugene Gunning, Netwerk24 Truman Prince. (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories George - Former Beaufort West mayor and African National Congress member, Truman Prince, is said to have threatened the acting municipal manager, Roelof van Staden, saying he&rsquo;ll kill him.Van Staden laid a charge with police on Monday. The matter has also been brought to the attention of Dan Plato, the Western Cape MEC for community safety, Netwerk24 reported.The alleged death threat was made telephonically and Van Staden recorded it on his cellphone.From the recording, it seems clear that the man who is speaking is very unhappy. The person refers to, among other things, a complaint lodged by the ANC with the IEC about the recent by election in Beaufort West.At one stage, the person threatens Van Staden that if a council meeting were to go ahead on Tuesday, he (Van Staden) will &ldquo;vrek&rdquo; (die).Asked for comment, Van Staden said on Wednesday that it was a call from Prince at about 11:20 on Monday that he had recorded. &ldquo;He wanted to know if there would be a city council meeting on Tuesday. I told him there wouldn&rsquo;t be one. There would be one on Wednesday.&rdquo;ChargeVan Staden laid a charge with the police in Beaufort West on Monday evening.&ldquo;I view this in a serious light and can&rsquo;t take it lightly. This is the first time something like this has happened to me.&rdquo;He said the case was now in the hands of the police and he could not comment any further.Prince did not&nbsp;answer his cellphone.The ANC&rsquo;s regional secretary in the Central Karoo, Windy Plaatjies, said the party was aware of the allegations.&ldquo;We have brought it to the attention of the Western Cape ANC&rsquo;s provincial executive committee. They will have to decide about possible action.&rdquo;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.