Abram MashegoRichard Mdluli Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Former Gauteng crime intelligence boss Patrick Mokushane is about to become the unit&rsquo;s acting national head. An announcement is expected to be made tomorrow.Mokushane, a known ally of suspended crime intelligence boss Lieutenant General Richard Mdluli, yesterday confirmed that he had been informed he was about to take command of the troubled unit. &ldquo;Yes, I have been informed of that decision and I am now waiting for the official announcement to be made,&rdquo; he said. Sources within crime intelligence said Mokushane&rsquo;s appointment was discussed at a high-level meeting on June 2 between acting national police commissioner, Lieutenant General Lesetja Mothiba, representatives of the Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans&rsquo; Association (MKMVA) and other crime intelligence operatives. &ldquo;It was also discussed in that meeting that President Jacob Zuma was under attack and that crime intelligence should assist in gathering covert intelligence that will assist in the build-up to the ANC&rsquo;s December elective conference,&rdquo; said a highly placed source with links to the intelligence community.Mokushane, however, told City Press that he would participate in no such plans. The intelligence source added that it was agreed at the meeting that a covert unit would gather information on individuals and organisations that were seen to be anti-Zuma, as well as their allies, and place them under surveillance.&ldquo;These include journalists, opposition party members, individuals vocal against the president, and nongovernmental organisations that are always fighting against the state,&rdquo; the source said.Troubled unitHowever, Mokushane, who attended the MKMVA conference this weekend, denied the allegations, saying that &ldquo;people will always say something&rdquo;. Mokushane said there were those who were jealous of his pending appointment and who were running a campaign to discredit him. The troubled unit has been without a permanent head since Mdluli was suspended on full pay six years ago. Mdluli, who is still fighting to return to the unit, has allegedly threatened to haul the police ministry to court if a permanent head is appointed to replace him.Mdluli&rsquo;s immediate successor, Major General Chris Ngcobo, was suspended in October 2013 after he allegedly had a fallout with then police commissioner Riah Phiyega. However, those close to Ngcobo allege that Phiyega, whose contract ended yesterday, targeted him after he warned her about the illegalities discussed in some of her telephone conversations.&ldquo;Phiyega was angry that crime intelligence bugged her phone and suspended Ngcobo,&rdquo; said one of his close allies yesterday.Another source within crime intelligence said Ngcobo then ordered that a case of defeating the ends of justice be opened against Phiyega for allegedly tipping off former Western Cape provincial police commissioner Arno Lamoer about a corruption investigation against him.Ngcobo was then replaced by Bongiwe Zulu, before she too was removed by Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane, who was himself recently axed as acting police commissioner and subsequently suspended. Zulu was then replaced by Major General MA Makhele, who was removed from the post and sent to head the Free State crime intelligence unit.TALK TO USWhat do you think about the alleged plans hatched at the meeting between crime intelligence and the MKMVA, which included spying on Zuma&rsquo;s foes?SMS us on 35697 using the keyword SPY. Please include your name and province. SMSes cost R1.5024.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.