Alet van der Walt, Netwerk24Seitatolo Sisinyi's body. (Alet van der Walt, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Bloemfontein - The search for a municipal worker who was reported missing by his wife on Monday morning came to an end on Tuesday when his vehicle and his body were found in a sewage dam just outside Wesselsbron in the Free State.The body of Jeremia Vuyisile Nikili, 53, was found on his Volvo S40's undercarriage in the dam, Netwerk24 reported. The car was lying on its roof. The body of Nikili's friend, Seitatolo Sisinyi, 39, was found on Monday morning, floating on the surface of the sewage dam. There were tracks showing a car had driven into the dam.The Nala municipality on Monday started emptying the sewage dam in the search for Nikili.They were last seen on Friday, June 23. Bystanders said Nikili and Sisinyi often sat in his car at the sewage farm, where he worked.Police divers from Bloemfontein and Welkom, as well as members of the police's search and rescue unit, were all present at the sewage dam.PumpA pump was borrowed from Sedibeng Water to empty the dam. A second pump belonging to the Nala municipality was repaired in the meantime and also used to empty the dam. The pumps were on during the night and when the police returned to the sewage farm on Tuesday morning, they saw the vehicle with Nikili's body lying at the back of the Volvo.A blanket and beer bottles were found in the car where Nikili and his friend had spent their last few hours together.Cables were used to hoist Nikili's body up a steep embankment.The police divers, who'd worked for hours knee deep in the sewage, then helped to move Nikili's vehicle from the dam. It was also attached to cables and a loader was used the last few metres to get it to the surface and flip it back on its wheels.Shortly after the Volvo was brought to the surface, a large crowd who had watched the proceedings started returning home.Police spokesperson Captain Stephen Thakeng said post mortems would be conducted and it didn't appear as if a crime had been committed.The police thought Nikili could have misjudged the distance when he turned close to the dam and the car then rolled down the embankment.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.