Nomzamo Yuku @Nomzamoyuku Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The community of Factreton has been tormented by gang related shooting since Thursday. According to a community member who did not want to be named the shooting only went silent for less than 24 hours after an alleged member of the American gang, Faiek Rhode (35), was shot and killed in Albacore street on Thursday by unknown gunman. He was reportedly shot several times and died from severe injuries to his chest, neck and head. The reason for the shooting is still unknown. No arrest has been made and a case of murder is being investigated by the Kensington police.On Friday evening a number of shots were heard from various streets. The community member says sometimes the sounds were as if the shots were exchanged between a group of people.The community member says this left many people scared and memories of previous years were triggered. The area has a history of gang violence and people have lost lives here. We are worried these gangsters would start again following the recent fatal shooting of one of the gang members. We hope our police will be able to keep peace and be visible at all times to make sure innocent people do not get hurt in this, says the community member.Police have confirmed that gang violence has once again flared up in Factreton and an arrest has been made. Kensington spokesperson, Sergeant Angeline Grill, says: Two men have been arrested and will be appearing at Cape Town Magistrate court (today) on charges of possession of illegal firearm. No injuries have been reported to date. It is unknown whether the shootings were related to Thursday s murder. It is being investigated. She says residents can rest assured that the police are doing everything in their power to maintain peace in the community.According to Grill an arrest was made around 06:00 on Sunday morning when they noticed suspicious men standing in Ventura Street. The police drove towards the men, who started to run towards Gilder Crescent into a Wendy house. The suspects, aged 22 and 30, were chased and found with a 357 revolver and ammunition in their possession. They were arrested.The community has reportedly been quiet and has gone back to normal since the arrest was made. However, the community member says he does not believe the two arrested were the only two exchanging the shots. He says there was a time when between 10 and 20 shots would just be heard one after another.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.