The letter by Fanele Batwa ( We are lenient to murderers , City Vision, May 25) refers.Who can remain silent when more and more people are calling for the return of the death penalty.Batwa says: There are certain circumstances in which the death penalty is essential to stop people from killing innocent souls . This is a blatant lie!The tragic part of such an emotional outbursts is that it perpetuates the myth that the death penalty is a solution to violent crime. Batwa, like many others, is highly uninformed as to what the death penalty did to our country in the colonial and Apartheid eras.These miserable folks must tell us how they intend killing thousands of people every year. The annual murder rate has already exceeded 18000, and many of the perpetrators are not even caught. The rich and influential can buy themselves out of jail. All the political parties had concluded jointly at the Codesa talks leading to democratization in 1994 that it was best for our country to abolish it(death penalty). The Constitutional Court, in a unanimous and decisive 11-0 vote ruled it unconstitutional, a violation of the right to life, cruel, inhumane punishment, and lastly, something that must never come back to our country.But none of the opposition parties came out with any credibility. Instead, the now defunct National Party fought the first democratic election on a pro-death penalty ticket. The IFP and even the so-called Christian party, the ACDP, also used the death penalty to dupe a gullible electorate to vote for them.But the worst one of this pitiful lot was the callous DA which decided to remain silent on such a contentious issue, proclaiming that they will allow a so-called free vote or a vote according to one s conscience . This will leave the door open for a referendum on the death penalty, something our country can ill-afford since it will lead to other more pressing issues like wealth tax, language and landrights, expropriation without compensation and nationalization.Political activists like Solomon Mahlangu and Andrew Zondo were hanged. Death penalty is a highly racist monstrosity targeting the lower and poor classes of society.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.