Nomzamo Yuku Some of the fire victims in Factreton searching for their stuff on the fire scene. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A fire in Factreton has left 15 homeless when four backyard shacks caught fire at about 06:45 today. While the cause of the fire is still being investigated the residents of the shacks in 18th Avenue were still asleep then they were woken by the flames that destroyed everything in the shacks and damaged the adjacent Brink More Ster Church. The side of the wall in the church has been badly cracked and the roof is also damaged. Luckily nobody was injured in the blaze but the victims were still in shock by the time the People’s Post got there. A shocked and trembling Crystalene Temmers (29), in whose shack the fire seems to have started, says she has no idea what happened.“I am still in shock with what has happened,” she says. “All I saw was the flames when I woke up and fled.” Another victim was 70-year-old Elaine Jooste who says she jumped off her bed and stood there shouting for help as flames started coming through her door. “I was standing there not knowing what to do and all I was saying was “take me out, take me out” and there were people on top of the roof,” she says. “They jumped in and lifted me up while others were pulling me out through the roof. I was glad to be safe but needed oxygen to recover.” Wilhelmina Stuurman (46) another resident affected in the fire says: “We were sleeping and my sister in-law woke us to say the place is burning. “My son opened the door for us and we ran out. Everyone else was still inside and they had to jump over the wall through the roof to get out.” Grade 12 learner, Andre Roman (17), says she is worried about her studies and hopes that educational officials will be able to help her. An official who could not be named, from the City of Cape Town was at the scene and said they would probably start delivering material by tomorrow and for now they are busy investigating and making plans to clear the area. Community leader, Colleen Jacobs says it is the first time the shacks in that yard were burnt and now the community was busy trying to make arrangements to get them a temporal shelter. She asked for donations from anyone who can help with food parcels, clothes and blankets to visit the victims at 18th Avenue or contact Jimmy at 073  2803 276.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  