Nokuthula Khanyile, The Witness Pupil allegedly referred to black peers by k-word twice. (File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The KwaZulu-Natal Education Department has recommended an official investigation be conducted into an alleged incident of racism involving a Maritzburg College pupil. It is understood a matric pupil referred to his black peers by the “k-word” on two separate occasions. The white pupil was suspended for a week and has since returned to the school while allegedly retaining his leadership role. The incident happened in February and new allegations surrounding the incident suggest that the principal kept quiet and did not report it to the department. Principal Chris Luman said he was prohibited from making comments about any incidents in the media. “The matter in question has been dealt with through the disciplinary process as dictated by the South African Schools Act,” Luman said. Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said district officials were trying to establish why the principal did not report the incident. “We don’t know why the principal decided to keep quiet for four months and did not report the incident to the department,” he said. Mthethwa said district officials who visited the school were told that the school had dealt with the matter internally and disciplined the pupil. “The school said an apology was offered to the black pupil and his parents but district officials have said they are unhappy with how the school handled the case. “There are procedures that were not followed and the district manager has recommended that a fresh investigation into the incident be conducted. “The district is not happy with the report that was filed by the school and feels that the correct channels were not followed,” Mthethwa said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  