The Nosh for Josh which was created to address the need for wider public awareness and education on Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) will be in Khayelitsha and Nyanga.Speakers Sandy Pekeur-Sandy and Gabriela Rishka Wiener from Nosh For Josh Team and Yandisa Kaulela-Mahlasela will be held at Way Of Life Church in Makhaya on June 19 whilst they they will be at Zolani Library Centre on Thursday June 22 from 10am on both days.Nosh for Josh is a non-profit organisation with a social and charitable purpose whose financial proceeds are used to advance work with autism and related disorders. Their mission is to guide people with autism in achieving quality of life and well being and to attain independence.The overall purpose of the Nosh for Josh Campaign is to: . To create awareness around autism . To raise fund for disadvantaged autistic kids and send them for The Stem Cell Therapy Operation in India . To bring hope to parents/families with autistic kids and . adults . To offer the parents valuable tools to engage and support with autistic kids with rehabilitation towards a normal life. . With this awareness campaign we intend to bring the workshops to the different communities We have chosen to the Stem Cell Therapy treatment to be done with NeuroGen Brain and Spine Institute in Mumbai, India.NeuroGen BSI is the only neurological institute stem cell facility in the world, they have the experience of treating over 4000 patients of neurological disorders with cellular therapy from more than 40 countries.Statistics have shown that, after Stem Cell Therapy, overall 91% of patients with autism have shown improvements in social relationships, emotional responses, speech communication and hyperactivity.Our aim is to develop a training institute to run courses, workshops (through the centre on a one to one, via e-learning and training for care givers and parents and families supporting children with autism (ASD) We are doing our first Roadshow in the township and are very excited to share the knowledge and to interact with the community, Yandisa Kaulele Mahlasela, founder of Ithembalangomsa, an NPO.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.