Maygene de Wee, Netwerk24Jason Rohde in court (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Jason Rohde, who is accused of murdering his wife Susan in their hotel room at the Spier Estate outside Stellenbosch in July last year, had two scratch marks on his back days after his wife&rsquo;s death.This information is contained in a medical report which forms part of the charge sheet, Netwerk24 reported.Rohde is set to appear in the Stellenbosch Magistrate&rsquo;s Court again on Friday.Susan Rohde&rsquo;s body was found in their hotel room on July 24, 2016. They had been staying there for Sotheby&rsquo;s International Realty SA&rsquo;s annual conference. Jason Rohde was at that stage CEO of Lew Geffen Sotheby&rsquo;s International Realty in South Africa. &nbsp;Jolene Alterskye, a former colleague and the woman Rohde is said to have had an affair with, wouldn&rsquo;t comment when asked if they were still friends and when last she&rsquo;d seen him.Medical examinationAccording to the medical report, Rohde was taken by detectives from the Stellenbosch serious crimes unit to Victoria Hospital in Wynberg on July 28, four days after his wife's death, where he was examined by Dr Marianne Tiemensma of the clinical forensic unit.According to the report on the visit to the doctor, Rohde had been accompanied by his lawyer, a relative and the investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Marlon Appolis.&nbsp;&nbsp; Tiemensma had noticed two superficial scratch marks or linear scratches on Rohde&rsquo;s back.The top one was about 20mm long and 1mm wide. The one just below it was about 30mm long and about 1mm wide. There was no indication that the scratches had started healing yet.Tiemensma also noted that Rohde had a &ldquo;fresh&rdquo; cut to the middle finger of his left hand.According to the medical report, Rohde said he&rsquo;d cut himself with a glass vase. He has three tattoos on his back. One of them apparently is the name of his late wife and another a bird.Anxious According to Tiemensma&rsquo;s the medical report, Rohde appeared concerned and anxious. However, he co-operated.In a sworn statement submitted to the Stellenbosch Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on August 25, 2016, a month after his wife&rsquo;s death, Rohde doesn&rsquo;t mention the scratch marks at all.He does, however, refer to the small cut on his finger and says he sustained it on July 26, 2016 in the presence of his children.The police had initially registered a judicial inquiry. The post mortem was done on July 27 and on August 4, it was changed to a murder investigation.Rohde was arrested at his home in Bryanston, Johannesburg, on August 23, 2016. He first appeared in the Stellenbosch Magistrate&rsquo;s Court charged with murder on August 25.Rohde&rsquo;s case is expected to be transferred to the Western Cape High Court on Friday.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.