iStock Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Aburoc - &nbsp;Albin Koolekheh watched his 4-year-old son die in his arms. He and his family were among tens of thousands of people who escaped a wave of fighting in South Sudan's civil war, only to find themselves living in a filthy camp near the border with Sudan.A new report by Amnesty International says South Sudanese forces burned, shelled and ransacked homes between January and May, killing civilians and forcing thousands like Koolekheh from the Shilluk ethnic minority to flee."Even considering South Sudan's history of ethnic hostility," the mass displacement was shocking, the report says.As South Sudan faces its fourth year of civil war, the fighting shows no signs of ending. Both government and opposition forces have been accused of war crimes including mass rape and targeted killings, while the United Nations warns of ethnic violence. While the focus has been on ethnic tensions between the Dinka of President Salva Kiir and the Nuer of rebel leader Riek Machar, the new report highlights the threat to others caught in the crossfire.When government troops attacked his hometown of Wau Shilluk in January, Koolekheh grabbed his wife and three children and left. After a day of walking through the bush, his youngest son fell sick. With no food or water, the boy died on the side of the road."Bullets, guns, screaming, it was everywhere," the weary 32-year-old father told The Associated Press this week. "This violence is known to the world. But what is everyone doing about it?"Now Koolekheh crouches on the dirt floor in the back room of a small shop, scrubbing metal bowls with a rag, his eyes fixed on the floor.He and his family are sheltering in Aburoc, an ad hoc displaced person's camp. At the peak of the fighting, 25 000 people were living in this bleak shantytown. Now roughly 10 000 remain, the rest gone to Sudan or nearby villages.Makeshift houses with plastic roofs are scattered across muddy fields. Food is scarce and disease is rife. A cholera outbreak threatened the population in May.Yet many have no choice but to call this town home. This is their third or fourth attempt at finding refuge in less than six months after being uprooted over and over by violence.Satellite imagery collected by Amnesty International shows the destruction of homes and other civilian buildings, including a temple, in the central areas of Wau Shilluk.The group's report says government troops often deliberately killed civilians, shooting them in the back when they tried to flee."These accounts are unfounded," said a South Sudan military spokesman, Colonel Santo Domic Chol. He said it isn't within the military's mandate to kill civilians and chase them from their homes.Yet stories abound of families fleeing for their lives.When government forces attacked the nearby opposition-held town of Kodok three months ago, Victoria Adhong said she fled and will never go back. Although Aburoc is currently peaceful, Adhong, the acting governor of Fashoda state, said it's hard to feel safe when the "enemy's next door."Another of the displaced, Elizabeth Adwok, said she fled Kodok with her seven children amid gunfire. They arrived in Aburoc in April and have struggled to find food, with little in the market and prices high."We're not here because we like it," Adwok said. "But we have nothing."The International Committee of the Red Cross, one of the few organizations with a presence in Aburoc, warned that with the onset of the rainy season things will only get worse."Access to food, water and health care is extremely limited," said Matthieu Desselas, head of the office in Kodok.But for the thousands of civilians already so far from their homes, this town is their last hope."It's the only place left for me in South Sudan," Koolekheh said. "I'll stay here until there's peace."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.