Jackie Kruger, Netwerk24 Cody when he was noticed walking along the N2 near Knysna on his way to the farm. (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories George – A badly burnt horse that survived 16 days in the veld after devastating wildfires near Knysna has found his way back to the farm where he lives by walking along the N2. When the fires broke out on June 7, Cody and four other ponies belonging to Karen Rademeyer were chased into a nearby plantation because at the time they couldn't be captured, Netwerk24 reported. All the other horses on Rademeyer's farm, along the N2 between the Rheenendal turn-off and Buffalo Bay, were caught and led to safety. The plantation into which the ponies ran wasn't on fire at the time and Rademeyer thought they would find the animals there later. However, the wind changed direction and the plantation burnt for four days in the same area where the horses had last been seen. Search Rademeyer didn't give up and on a daily basis used thermal imaging, aircraft and drones to search for the animals. Just after 10:00 on Friday, someone saw Cody walking along the N2. "People were crying when they noticed the condition he was in when they saw him about 100 metres from the farm," said Rademeyer. "My phone started ringing and people were leaving messages when they noticed him. He was very thin and it also seemed as if he had lost his vision, but that didn't deter him from walking to his spot on the farm. We walked him to a safe place. He was very hungry and parched. He was really in a shocking condition. "It was very emotional to see him like this, but I just realised how determined he had been. We decided to administer treatment and help where we could. He is doing surprisingly well. The vet is very happy with his progress." The other four horses – Cheeky, Bella, Milu and Déjà Vu – are still missing. They could be anywhere from Brenton to Groenvlei, or even more inland in the Elandskraal and Barrington areas. Anyone with information is requested to please contact 082 877 1716 or 081 360 7279.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  