Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The Rustenberg area has seen several new schools and a medical clinic open their doors and open opportunity for the local people of this mining hub.Whenever the children from the Rustenberg suburb of Thlabane had to go to school, they risked their lives. Separating the suburb in the city&rsquo;s west from the nearest primary school, the R104 had claimed several lives. It grimly demanded a more local presence where the students could go, explained the school&rsquo;s Principal, David Thlowe, &ldquo;There was a dire need. The area didn&rsquo;t have a primary school and kids would cross the busy road to Swartruggens. This was a safety risk.&rdquo;In 2010, the Thlabane West Primary School opened its doors. Built with the cooperation of Anglo American, the Department of Education and Rustenberg Municipality, the school is now home to 1,300 students from grades R to 7. Thlowe, who has been its Principal since 2011, saw the facilities expand to include dedicated Grade R classes, a computer centre and library. &ldquo;The four grade R classes each have a kitchen, a medical room, a storeroom, a teacher&rsquo;s restroom and two bathrooms for the kids. These are safe environments and a big step up from the prefabricated classes used for the grade beforehand.&rdquo; Giving back and sharing the wealth it gathers from the region is key to Anglo American&rsquo;s long-term viability. It has worked to bring that reach across Rustenberg: in the far east of the city, the Photsaneng Primary School is perhaps an even more stark example of needed upliftment and how even seemingly small additions can make a huge difference. Here the mine and its partners have funded the construction of two new classrooms, a computer centre as well as a new sports field and multi-purpose court. Girls frequently populate the latter, channeling their competitiveness into games of Netball. But the facility can be configured to support volleyball and basketball as well.The galvanising effect of these projects can also be seen at the Seraleng Primary Healthcare Clinic, settled in the north of Rustenberg. Opened in 2016, this facility provides care to several communities in the area, including general consultations, dentistry, maternity services and TB therapiesAs Nava Narain, Anglo American&rsquo;s Social Performance Manager, said during a visit to the school, creating opportunity is crucial to combat the impoverished conditions of the area &ldquo;In Rustenberg the biggest enemies are poverty and a lack of education. Our drive to educate society is so critical in order to uplift communities. An educated society leads to access to other opportunities, whether in business or elsewhere.&rdquo; The people of Rustenberg know that there is rarely time to pause in the pursuit of success, especially now that they have the facilities to help reach for it.