The Van Breda murder trial continued at the Western Cape High Court for day 24 of the proceedings where crime scene investigator Warrant Officer Andre Hitchcock testified in court. Follow News24 journalist Tammy Petersen on Twitter for the latest updates:&nbsp;@ TammyPetersen87&nbsp; Jump to bottom Galloway wants to submit an affidavit by Warrant Officer Lorraine Nel, Botha says she needs to be in court to testify so that she can be cross examined. Botha says she examined some of these exhibits by means of a process requiring competence in biology.Doesn't say what she did. Presumptive test, reliability and further questions around that. Galloway says a DNA expert will also be called.Botha says on one of the digital photos, a golf cart was standing at the back door. The back door handle was also swabbed for touch DNA. From the back door, one can see the back of the garage. On the left hand side, there was another door on the cement in front of the door, they saw a mark which looked like blood.Did you look there for blood? Hitchcock said they searched for everything they could find.????White mop from washing line - white and grey t-shirt on washing line; white dishwashing cloth from washing line; white and pink check cloth; multicoloured dishwashing cloth; white sock from washing line.Were they wet? Desai asks. No, they were dry, Hitchcock says.Botha now refers Hitchcock to his notes where he sepaks to red and white socks, a blue t-shirt and a grey towel. Presumable blood on towel; blue t-shirt also had blood on it. The evidence numbers in his notes don't correspond with the exhibits. Hitchcock says he marked it incorrectly.Botha says this may affect the test. Hitchcock says it could.Swabbed for blood - there is a number of droplets on the blade of the knife. Which one did you swab?The knife was placed on the bed. Hitchcock said he did it himself. Then he swabbed it. Botha asks what about the bed, would there not be any DNA? why not put it on a different surface?Botha refers to knife sticking out under the bed.Adv Botha says variety of spatters on axe. Did you run it over all the blood? Hitchcock says he took a sample, can&#39;t recall how. #VanBreda pic.twitter.com/zCuJXqH9jtWO Hitchcock took one swab on wood handle of axe, blunt side of head and sharp end. Can&#39;t recall if it was a wide swab or a spot. #VanBredaBotha says if it moved, he definitely didn't move it?Definitely not, Hitchcock says.Also taken from blunt side. Can't confirm where.You can't say if you lifted more than one spatter?That's correct, Hitchcock says.When you took the swab, did you run it over all of the blood? Hitchcock says he took a sample, but he can't say exactly how.On the blade side, Hitchcock says.A lot of blood on the head of the axe at scene. So you only took a swab from one spot there?Yes, Hitchcock says.Botha - so you took it somewhere there, but can't say where? That's correct, Hitchcock says.On the wooden section there is a variety of spatters, not necessarily from one person. When you took the swab, did you only take of one drop ar a swab across that section? Hitchcock can't say where specifically where he took the swab.Hitchcock says he sent the axe to the lab, but noted the touch DNA.Was it tested? Botha asks. Hitchcock refers to pic 547 to 550. These are the swabs he took while at Worcester. So you sent it to the lab, then to your roffice in Worcester for fingerprints? Yes, Hitchcock says.He says in his letter to the lab he had written he had collected possible touch DNA. Botha says it can be acceptaed that he had collected touch DNA, not blood. Yes, Hitchcock says.Botha says in the bathroom (en-suite) there were swabs taken. Did you take any swabs in the other bathrooms in the house? No, Hitchcock says.16 Febuary 2015 at 11:04 we arrived at the scene and Captain van der Westhuizen was among those with us.He was there at the scene on the day of the murders. He was outside with the CSI van, outside the cordon.He was at the scene when we had gone through everything, with the identifcation of the shoe prints.Did Captain van der Westhuizem help you identify them?He worked with it afterward.Did anyone help you?Officer Hanekom, Hitchcock says.S1 to S39 - refers to shoe prints. Who made the identification?He did, Hitchcock says.Hitchcock says this could be a typing error.&nbsp;117 - you didnt take it. No photo was taken of the kit.No photo taken of the seal bag. Change was made to the number of the kit. It wasn't sealed like all the rest.That's correct, Hitchcock says.Botha says unsealed kits should be sent to the lab.Hitchcock says under normal circumstances.Asked where the middle seal is.Hitchcock says it's not there.Why? He says he can't give a reason for this, it could be his mistake.Corner of shower floor photo discussed. Exhibit number changed.He can't remember if he changed it.Where is photo of evidence seal bag after they were put into their boxes?No photos, but it's in his report, Hitchcock says.Why didn't you follow usual procedure? Hitchcock says he can't give a specific reason for this.Botha says all the other evidence was photographed.Hitchcock confirms.Botha asks for photos of evidence kits 113 to 117Hitchcock says it appeared it wasn't taken.Botha: You are aware that chemical can give a false positive? Hitchcock says he can't say.Botha says it was later determined by officer Nel that the suspected blood in shower didn't test positive as blood.Court resumes.&nbsp;Photos are in chronological order.WO Andre Hitchcock testified he photographed, recorded #VanBreda scene alone as per procedure. Photo evidence showed another officer there. pic.twitter.com/98lFP8v9Zh Jump to top