Jenni Evans, News24Members of Parliament's portfolio committee on transport inspect the aftermath of the rampage at Cape Town station (Sibongile Maputi, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Two trains were set alight and shops looted at Cape Town station on Monday night, when commuters went on the rampage in reaction to lengthy delays.WATCHCape Town - Metrorail will soldier on to keep trains running on Tuesday night, albeit with fewer available coaches and platforms, after Monday night's rampage at the Cape Town Station, the company said."Trains may be placed in a holding pattern outside Cape Town Station for this reason," cautioned Metrorail.Anticipated delays on Tuesday afternoon are as follows: Monte Vista line 10 - 20 minutes Northern line 10 - 20 minutes Central line 50 - 60 minutes Cape Flats line 20 - 30 minutes Southern line 30 - 40 minutes &nbsp;Metrorail said it had beefed up security and had cleared the smoke and debris, after commuters set coaches alight because of delays on Monday night.Those delays were caused by an overloaded electrical system that tripped and brought trains to a standstill. While technicians were trying to fix the problem, some commuters starting breaking turnstiles and set two trains alight.READ: Commuters rebel as Metrorail failsFor Tuesday evening's commute, Metrorail advises:'Burning trains is not a solution'Meanwhile, members of Parliament's transport portfolio committee said they were shocked after seeing the damage."Burning trains is not a solution. Instead, it exacerbates the transport challenges that our people encounter. This is the only thing we have to move people to work. We must find a permanent solution to this challenge," committee chairperson Leonard Ramatlakane said.He was told that signal failure, due to electricity cuts and cable theft, had led to extended train delays, and that there were not enough buses to take people home.As a result, people he regarded as criminals had burnt two trains, vandalised and looted shops in the station, and broke electronic signs."Commuters must flush out the criminals. They must not act under the guise of being commuters. This is no ordinary crime. It is clear it was carried out by people who understand the system," he said.The repairs were expected to run into millions of rand, he added.After Monday's events, the United National Transport Union demanded that Metrorail regional manager Richard Walker resign immediately.General secretary Steve Harris said Metrorail did not warn commuters about the problem, which left commuters agitated.They started attacking staff and damaging property. Some even went looking for train drivers and ticket officers in their rest rooms, he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.