News24 Correspondent (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - Two dead rhino have been found at the farm of a Zimbabwe
government minister, reports said Friday. The two black rhino carcasses were found buried with their
horns missing at the 5 000 hectare Savuli Ranch, leased by Masvingo Provincial
Affairs Minister Shuvai Mahofa, reports the state-controlled Herald. The ranch is one of several privately-owned game farms in
the Save Valley Conservancy (SVC), home to the Big Five including endangered
rhino. "The first carcass found at the end of April was buried
underground and we suspect this was done to conceal it from being seen by
people," Simukai Nyasha, spokesperson for the state national parks and wildlife
management authority (Zimparks) told the paper. "Early June this year another carcass of a sub-adult male
rhino was also discovered by Zimparks rangers on patrol at SVC’s Savuli Ranch
and a bullet head was found at the scene," he added. 'I'm shocked': Mahofa Mahofa told the paper she was shocked by news of the
discovery but claimed it was the work of her white neighbours who resented her
presence within the conservancy. "I suspect that my neighbouring white conservancy operators
might be behind this heinous killing of the rhinos to tarnish my name," she
said. Mahofa was allocated her ranch under the government’s
wildlife-based land reform programme. Several other high-ranking ruling party
officials were allocated properties in the conservancy, but the allocations
were later reversed on the basis they already owned farms elsewhere. In 2012, the private NewsDay reported that Mahofa was under
investigation by Zimparks for poaching. That was after three buffalo carcasses and other plains game
meat was allegedly found at her butchery in the southern town of Gutu. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  