Sir Ketumile Masire (File: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Gaborone &ndash; Social media users took to Twitter on Friday&nbsp;&nbsp;to honour Botswana's former president Sir Ketumile Masire following his death.Masire died on Thursday night after he was hopitalised last weekend in a critical condition.He was aged 91.Masire was the president of Botswana&nbsp;from 1980 to 1998.Some on Twitter described him as one of the "best leaders" on the African continent.Masire led various diplomatic initiatives in Africa, including chairing a panel that investigated the 1994 Rwanda genocide, and co-ordinating the Inter-Congolese National Dialogue.Meanwhile, the Board of Trustees of the Sir Ketumile Masire Foundation (SKMF) said in a statement that Masire died peacefully, while surrounded by his family."The Board of Trustees of the Sir Ketumile Masire Foundation (SKMF) and the Masire family wish to inform all friends and supporters of SKMF of the passing on of Rre. He died peacefully at Bokamoso Private Hospital surrounded by his family at 22:10hrs on 22 June 2017," the statement said. "We thank well-wishers and friends from near and far, for their prayers, thoughts and comforting messages of support during this difficult time."&nbsp; See Twitter reaction below.&nbsp;RIP our former president...one of the best leaders we ever had..never afraid of the truth..thank you RRE KETUMILE MASIRE..A fallen hero Rre Maire u shall be rememberedCondolences to the Masire Family... RIP President Sir Ketumile Quett Joni Masire. #RIPRAGAONE pic.twitter.com/xq1FFC90VRFormer Botswana President Sir Ketumile Masire dies aged 91 . Very Sad time for Botswana ??????????Very sorry to hear about the passing of former President Masire. Botswana has lost a leader and Sweden a good friend. @BWGovernmentWhat a legend!RIP Sir Ketumile Masire@BWGovernmentRest In Peace, the late great Sir Ketumile Masire, a true leader. #RIPMasire24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.