Nation Nyoka, News24Mark Warona Zinde, son of Hope Zinde, appears in the Brits Regional Court (Jeanette Chabalala, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;The trial against Mark Zinde is expected to resume on Monday in the Pretoria High Court in connection with the murder of his mother, Hope Zinde, and the assault of his father. Mark Warona Zinde, 23, initially appeared briefly in the Brits Regional Court before the matter was moved to a high court. He is accused of killing his mother Hope Zinde, 50, a former SABC board member, journalist and television news anchor. Zinde is alleged to have killed his mother at their home in Pecanwood Estate, Hartbeespoort Dam. Zinde was missing for several days before her body was found stuffed in the boot of her Range Rover in the garage. At the time, it was reported that a friend had struggled to get hold of the media personality for a few days and that her son had refused to open the door to their home, only opening it when police arrived. Zinde is facing a charge of murder and possession of drugs. After undergoing psychiatric evaluation at the Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital in Pretoria following his arrest in June, it was declared that he did not suffer from any mental disorder when he allegedly killed his mother, contrary to what his family contended. It was further stated that he was fit to stand trial, and that he was capable of understanding court proceedings. The court dismissed his and the defence&rsquo;s application for him to be re-admitted at Weskoppies. He was released on R10 000 bail. Zinde also faced another charge of assault with the intention to cause grievous bodily harm at the Vereeniging Magistrates' Court after he was arrested in November 2016. This came after he allegedly attacked his father Dr Lebohang Manoto at his home in Walkerville, south of Johannesburg. Manoto was reading a newspaper at his home when the incident allegedly took place. He was rescued by his wife while Mark was allegedly choking him. Manoto later laid charges against his son at the De Deur police station. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) will centralise the cases of murder and assault against Zinde. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.