Nation Nyoka, News24EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. (Felix Dlangamandla/Foto24_ Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; An Empangeni court sentencing of a 45-year-old man, who raped and impregnated his 11-year-old daughter to life imprisonment on Monday, has been welcomed by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). EFF national spokesperson, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, said that the ruling &ndash; which the EFF noted fell at the end of &lsquo;Child Protection Week&rsquo; &ndash; delivered the type of justice that should be handed down when children are violated. The party also commended the justice system for their work. In a previous interview with News24, police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said that the father had been raping his daughter since she was eight years old in the absence of her mother. The KwaZulu-Natal survivor gave birth to the child in June 2016 when she was taken to the clinic by her father after complaining about stomach cramps. The baby passed away, and the case was reported to the police in Empangeni, and then transferred to Empangeni Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit for further investigation before the man was found guilty.&nbsp; "It is excruciatingly painful that our daughters can never be assured of safety, even in the presence and care of their own fathers," said Ndlozi in the statement. Ndlozi said that the case was particularly celebrated as black women had already been failed by the justice system previously. The EFF has since insisted that the same justice should be granted in the case of three-year-old Courtney Pieters from Elsies River in Cape Town who was raped and murdered by 40-year-old Mortimer Saunders. The man was renting in the little girl's parents' house. Her body was found in a shallow grave next to disused railway tracks in Epping Industria, about 2km from her home. She was last seen near her home on May 4. Ndlozi said that the failure to carry out justice leads to 'political monsters' manipulating people financially by offering them money instead of justice. Ndlozi called on all members of society to be vigilant in ensuring children are safe. "Our children cannot be assumed to be safe even in their own homes. It should be the priority of the community, the police, health care centres and the law that ensures the safety of children from harm and sexual violence," said Ndlozi. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.