Alet Joubert, Netwerk24Some of the loot that was found on the robber. (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Mbombela - A quick voice message to a security company saved an Mpumalanga mom and her daughter after they were locked in a safe during an armed robbery, Netwerk24 reports. Joanne Adendorff, the manager of Standerton Country Club, took her daughter Kayla Cubitt, 17, to work with her on Monday. "They are writing exams at the moment and Kayla would've gone to school a bit later," said Adendorff.With the security gate firmly locked, Adendorff sat working in her office until a co-worker arrived. She unlocked for him and went back to her office."It wasn&rsquo;t two minutes later that the robber appeared,&rdquo; said Adendorff."The club worker had disappeared into thin air and another man joined the robber. They wanted money. All the money made over the weekend."They also immediately took Kayla's cellphone. And you know what a teenager is like over a cellphone. My phone was in my pocket and when they asked me where it was, I told them I'd left it at home."Locked in safeThe robbers forced mom and daughter out of the office and took them to a walk-in safe at the club."They searched us. Can you believe it, they even took Kayla's sweets."When the robbers got to her, she outwitted them by drawing their attention to the petty cash. The robbers locked the two of them in the safe before making off with the moneyAdendorff took a chance and sent a voice message to Kasselman security:"Jannie, this is Joanne, I am in the safe at the club, they robbed us, please come quickly, thank you," she said in an urgent whisper."We got the call at 08:15 and probably were there within two minutes," said the security company&rsquo;s Jandr&eacute; Kasselman.The suspects hot-footed it over the golf course and hid in dense reeds.ArrestsOne of the suspects was arrested there. He had a bag of money, a knife and some other items.The police, meanwhile, had also arrived at the scene."I didn't know there were so many police vehicles in Standerton," said Adendorff.After a quick investigation, the police determined that the club worker and the robbers had been in contact via cellphone. The worker was also arrested."We believe that it is just a matter of time before the third suspect is behind bars," said Colonel Fanie Motubane of the Standerton police.The school has given Kayla permission not to write the exams and Adendorff said they would both go for counselling."I realise how traumatised she is. She was petrified that the robbers would come back to the safe and do something to us and now doesn't want to be alone at all."Adendorff has been the victim of an armed robbery twice before. "I hope it comes in threes and that this was the last time."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.