 Rebone Tau The recent MKMVA conference took place during the most difficult era since
the dawn of our democracy. On the eve on the conference, some MKMVA leaders and
NEC members publicly questioned the composition of delegates and the status of
the conference. As the Citizen reported:  It is worrying that President Zuma still addressed the
MKMVA conference despite these serious concerns and that he did not condemn the
leadership of the MKMVA regarding their divisions building up to the conference.
What signal is the president sending to my generation when he is seen
addressing such a conference without due regard to the issues that speak to its
legitimacy? It will be recalled that when the ANCYL Congress in
2014 experienced similar challenges, its status was changed from an elective
congress to a consultative one. We welcomed that decision because we took it as
the wisdom of our elders. Why then was the MKMVA conference allowed to proceed
under such serious legitimacy challenges? What is President Zuma teaching my
generation and those that will come after me? It is clear that there is a crisis within the MKMVA. The
101 ANC Stalwarts and Veterans have consistently raised serious issues around
the MKMVA conference. Does this mean that President Zuma is factional? Why did
he address a conference whose status was questioned by some of its own comrades
and leaders? What does that mean for us as a movement moving forward?
It is clear that this is an era of madness and we will see abnormal dynamics
playing themselves out during this time. My generation had hoped to learn from the elders how
the movement operates, but it is unfortunate that it is an era of madness.
President O.R. Tambo, the longest president of the ANC, must be turning in his
grave because all this is happening in the year we celebrate him and his life.
This is indeed a sad era in our history. Oh my beloved movement that I love so
much; it has been turned to a circus. Who ever thought that in 2017 we would see comrades
from exile tearing themselves apart? What must we learn from them? It is sad
that President Zuma, who was also in exile, is unable to unify all these
comrades.   - Rebone Tau is a former ANC Youth League's National Task Team member. She writes in her personal capacity.Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.  * Only comments that contribute to a constructive debate will be published by the moderator.   