The destroyed Al-Nuri Mosque in the Old City of Mosul, during the ongoing offensive to retake the area from Islamic State group fighters. (Ahmad al-Rubaye, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Baghdad - The recapture of the Mosul mosque where Islamic State group chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi made his only known public appearance marks the "end" of the jihadists' state, Iraq's prime minister said on Thursday. "We are seeing the end of the fake Daesh state," Haider al-Abadi said in an English statement on his Twitter account, using an Arabic acronym for ISIS. The jihadist
 group announced its self-styled "caliphate" on June 29, 2014 across 
swathes of territory its fighters overran in Iraq and neighbouring 
Syria. Its rule since then has been marked by repeated atrocities 
including mass beheadings and other executions documented in photos and 
videos that its supporters share online. "Counter-Terrorism 
Service forces control the Nuri mosque and Al-Hadba (minaret)," Iraq's 
Joint Operations Command said in a statement. Staff Lieutenant 
General Abdulghani al-Assadi, a senior CTS officer, also confirmed its 
recapture, telling state TV that "the mosque is (now) behind our units." Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi hailed the recapture of the mosque as a sign of ISIS's impending defeat. "We
 are seeing the end of the fake Daesh state," Abadi said in an English 
statement on his Twitter account, using an Arabic acronym for IS. The
 mosque and its famed Al-Hadba (hunchback) leaning minaret were Mosul 
landmarks and also held major significance in the history of IS rule in 
Iraq. ISIS declared its "caliphate" in an audio recording three years ago. A
 video released a few days later showed IS chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi 
speaking at Friday prayers at the Nuri mosque and calling on Muslims to 
obey him, his only known public appearance as "caliph". Baghdadi's fate and whereabouts remain unknown, and ISIS has lost much of the territory it overran in 2014. The
 jihadists blew up the mosque and minaret on June 21 as they put up 
increasingly desperate resistance to the advance of Iraqi forces. Only the base of the minaret remains, and while the mosque's dome is still standing, much of the rest of it has been destroyed. Officials
 from Iraq and the US-led anti-ISIS coalition said the destruction of the 
site was a sign of the jihadist group's imminent loss of Mosul, with 
Abadi calling it an "official declaration of defeat". Heritage destroyed The
 loss of the iconic 12th century minaret - one of the country's most 
recognisable monuments sometimes referred to as Iraq's Tower of Pisa -
left the country in shock. But the destruction had been widely 
anticipated, with commanders saying IS would not have allowed Iraqi 
forces to score a hugely symbolic victory by recapturing the site. ISIS
 claimed on its Amaq propaganda agency that the site was hit in a US air
 strike, but the US-led coalition said it was the jihadists who had 
"destroyed one of Mosul and Iraq's great treasures". Russia has 
said it is seeking to verify whether the IS leader, whose whereabouts 
have been unknown for months, was killed when its warplanes hit the 
group's leaders in a night air raid in Syria last month. The 
mosque in Mosul's Old City was the latest in a long list of priceless 
heritage and historical monuments destroyed by IS during its three-year 
rule over swathes of Iraq and Syria. The minaret, which was 
completed in 1172 and had been listing for centuries, is featured on 
Iraq's 10 000-dinar banknote and was the main symbol of Iraq's second 
city - giving its name to countless restaurants, companies and even 
sports clubs in Mosul. After seizing Iraq's Sunni Arab heartland 
in June 2014, ISIS reportedly rigged Al-Hadba with explosives but was 
prevented from blowing it up by the local population. The jihadists 
consider the reverence of objects, including of such sites, as heresy. The
 mosque's destruction came three days after government forces launched 
an assault on the Old City, the last district of Mosul still under ISIS 
control. Tens of thousands of residents are believed to still be 
trapped in the district by IS, which has been using civilians as human 
shields to defend its last redoubt in Mosul. The area still 
controlled by the jihadists is small but its narrow streets and the 
presence of so many civilians has made the operation perilous. Dozens of civilians were brought out of the area of the Nuri mosque in military vehicles on Thursday. "We don't believe that we made it alive," said Umm Karam, one of those who fled.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  