Sir Ketumile Masire (File: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories 'Courageous' minister 'lauded for telling Mugabe to name successor' Harare &ndash; Zimbabwe's ex-freedom fighters have reportedly lauded "courageous" Minister of War Veterans Tshinga Dube for openly telling President&nbsp;Robert Mugabe, 93, to name his successor.Tshinga recently&nbsp;urged Mugabe&nbsp;to name or groom his successor in-order to put a stop to the continued factional fights in his ruling Zanu-PF party.&nbsp;Read more on this story here&nbsp;Several African dignitaries in Botswana for Masire's send-off Gaborone &ndash; Several African dignitaries are in Botswana for the memorial and funeral service of former president Sir Ketumile Masire, who&nbsp;died in hospital last week at the age of 91, a report says. &nbsp; According to&nbsp;SABC, Masire's memorial service will be held in Gaborone on Wednesday, while his funeral will be held on Thursday at his home village, Kanye.Read more on this story hereScores of Zimbabweans in SA storm embassy in Pretoria to demand voting rights Harare &ndash; Scores of Zimbabweans living in South Africa stormed the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Tuesday, demanding the right to vote in the 2018 general elections, reports said. According to&nbsp;News Day, the protesters first gathered at the Union Buildings before proceeding to the Zimbabwean embassy to present their petition.For more on this story click hereZim's #ThisFlag leader Evan Mawarire freed on bail Harare - A Zimbabwean pastor and anti-government activist who was arrested for addressing protesting university students has been freed on bail. Evan Mawarire was released on Wednesday. He had been in police custody since Monday. He is charged with disorderly conduct in a public place and is free on $200 bail.For more on this story click here&nbsp;Zim police arrest student leaders after fees demo Harare - Police in Harare have arrested three student leaders from the University of Zimbabwe, as rights lawyers went to court to challenge the eviction of hundreds of medical students in the wake of this week's fees protest.Those arrested are Steven Tsikirai, president of the UZ&rsquo;s Students Representative Council (SRC); Treasurer Ignatius Mukuchi and Sports Secretary Kudakwashe Guta, lawyers said.Disorderly conduct "ZRP (Zimbabwe Republic Police) officers allege that the student leaders acted in a disorderly conduct and committed public violence during a protest staged by some UZ medical students on Monday," said the Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights (ZLHR). For more on this story click here Gabon opposition figure held after threats to Bongo Libreville - A Gabonese opposition figure who earlier this month threatened violence if President Ali Bongo failed to resign has been placed in preventive custody, the state prosecutor said on Wednesday. Roland Desire Aba'a Minko "was placed in preventive detention ... Tuesday night after being charged with threatening state security, inciting rebellion and circulating fake news to undermine public order", prosecutor Steeve Ndong Essame Ndong told AFP. For more on this story click here&nbsp; &nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.