iStock 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     New York  - France and the United States have reached an agreement on a draft UN resolution that would pave the way for the deployment of a five-nation African military force to fight jihadists in the Sahel region, diplomats said Tuesday. A vote at the UN Security Council could take place as early as Wednesday on the draft resolution that welcomes the deployment but does not give it full UN authorisation, according to the agreed text seen by AFP. Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania and Niger - which make up the G5 - agreed in March to set up a special counter-terrorism operation of 5 000 troops for the Sahel region. France had requested that the Security Council authorise the force in a first draft text circulated two weeks ago that would have given the G5 troops a UN mandate to "use all necessary means" to combat terrorism, drug trafficking and people smuggling. The United States however had opposed UN authorisation for the force, arguing that it was not legally necessary and that the mandate was too broad and lacking in precision. The new draft resolution "welcomes the deployment" of the G5 force "with a view to restoring peace and security in the Sahel region" and drops a provision that invoked chapter 7 of the UN charter, which authorises the use of force. The United States had argued that a simple statement welcoming the regional force would have been sufficient, but France insisted that a full resolution was needed in line with a request from the African Union. France carried out a military intervention in Mali in 2013 to drive out jihadist groups, some of which were linked to Al-Qaeda, which had seized key cities in the country's north. Although the Islamists have been largely ousted from the north, jihadist groups continue to mount attacks on civilians and UN forces in violence that has engulfed parts of central Mali. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  