Romantha Botha, Netwerk24Screengrab Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A silent alarm coupled with a CCTV system allowed Cape Town's Uwais Paulsen to apprehend a would-be thief attempting to gain access to his vehicle on 31 May.WATCHCape Town - A cellphone thief almost came off second best when her victim, a woman from Ruyterwacht in Cape Town, started punching the woman, before the culprit managed to flee with the phone. In CCTV footage on an Elsies River community Facebook page, the victim can be seen sitting on the ground in front of a gate while she&rsquo;s busy on her cellphone, Netwerk24 reports. It&rsquo;s not known who the victim is.A woman wearing a pink shirt and dark trousers walks down the road and stops in front of her. She grabs the phone and tries to make off with it.&nbsp;&nbsp; However, the victim tries to grab the phone back and the two wrestle. Then the victim starts punching her.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; After a few seconds of wrestling and punching, a silver car stops next to the two and a man wearing a white fez gets out. The fight carries on, with the robber also landing a punch.The driver then opens the car&rsquo;s front door for the thief. She jumps in, and they roar off.&nbsp; The incident happened at 16:42 on Monday afternoon.Several people have said they regularly see the car at the Avondale railway station.Imraahn Mukaddam, the deputy chair of the Ruyterwacht community policing forum, said even though he wasn&rsquo;t aware of the incident, the community should provide information so that the police could build a strong case."It is not enough to post it on social media, because more cases are necessary to get them behind bars. Often residents do open cases, but then don&rsquo;t follow up on it by attending court hearings," said Mukaddam.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; "The cases are thrown out and nothing is achieved. I appeal to members of the community to report crimes such as this to the police for there to be a record of it, and for robbers to be arrested sooner."The Ruyterwacht police said they didn&rsquo;t have any record of the incident.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.