Iavan Pijoos and Amanda Khoza, News24SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The couple and a young woman who were found bound, gagged and burnt are expected to be laid to rest on Wednesday afternoon, in accordance with Hindu rites.A family member told News24 that relatives were at the state mortuary in Pretoria awaiting the release of the remains of Gregory Naidoo, 57, Melanie Naidoo, 51, and her daughter Rakiel Naidoo, 23. Gregory was Rakiel's uncle.A prayer service with close relatives was held on Tuesday night. Once the bodies had been released from the mortuary, a service was expected to be held at Marks Park.The three went missing on Sunday night in what was believed to have been a robbery at their home in Northcliff. Their bodies were found in Centurion.READ: Family identifies 3 found gagged, bound, burnt to death in CenturionUncertaintyNews24 reported on Tuesday that the family had confirmed that the remains were their relatives."We have identified the bodies by what remains of our family, clothes and other body parts. We have made no facial recognition and are still waiting on the results from all the testing that has been done," Shaniel Naidoo said.Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela said they had not been identified and they were still working with the family.Naidoo said there was uncertainty about what happened and the motives behind the murders."We are relying on the police to answer this and put to rest all speculation currently circulating. For now we await the positive identification of our family. We want to thank the Northcliff community and everyone for their generous and sincere efforts."Rakiel's former school, Northcliff High School, sent its condolences to the family in a Facebook post: "Our deepest condolences to the Naidoo family for their terrible loss. We all fondly remember Rakiel Naidoo, a past pupil at the school. Sending you our love and support during this difficult time."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.