Land reform is favouring businesses over poor individuals, two researchers have claimed. (Masixole Feni, GroundUp) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories ANC Gauteng chair Paul Mashatile says they will look at the challenges facing the party during the first two days of its national policy conference. Watch. WATCHThe 2017 policy document on economic transformation says very little about land reform. And it does not take the land reform debate beyond the populist noise.The failure to provide an honest assessment of why old ideas were not converted to implementable policies shows that the ANC has lost the capacity to think.Perhaps in this age of "crass dishonesty", to borrow a phrase from Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, it would be foolish to expect an honest assessment of policy failures, writes Mpumelelo Mkhabela.Read more.With the Bill of Rights under siege, Mogoeng is a beacon of hopeFreedom of association is under threat. The right to human dignity is under threat. Freedom of the press is equally under threat. South Africa faces a dark time in our history. The instances we see unfolding before us, risking and threatening lives, are not coincidental. They are interlinked and they all emanate from an illegitimate corner or so-called &lsquo;shadow government.&rsquo; As the shadow grips us more, our country moves ever further away from the values of Madiba&rsquo;s rainbow nation. There are very few leaders today who still exemplify Madiba&rsquo;s values. The former Public Protector, Thuli Madonsela, is one and the Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, thankfully, is another, writes Anneke Scheepers.Read more.10 issues the ANC Policy Conference needs to addressAs the Chinese say, out of every crisis comes an opportunity. In this case it is an opportunity for the ANC to move away from the issue of who is going to be the next leader, to coming out with a statement after the meeting about how the top 10 most pressing issues facing the country will be tackled. Short and sweet, no political ambivalence, no blame game: just a positive vision of the turnaround strategy and the actions to be taken over the next 12 months to make it happen, writes Clem Sunter.Read more.