Chris Kanyane Picture: File Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories By and large South
Africans have matured. Many knew all along that despite all the good intentions
of the many people within the ANC, despite their well-intended speeches, they
would continue to cut their nose to spite their face. But the results
came as a surprise. This was a narrow escape for the president. Altogether 198
against and 177, in favour, is not much of a difference. And to add to that 9
MPs abstained. In my
observations the ANC is not only at war with South Africa and South Africans
but also with the laws of nature. The First Law
the ANC is attacking is Murphy’s Law. Murphy’s Law says things left to
themselves have a tendency to go from bad to worse. The language and policy of the
ANC is that of doing nothing. They express this by saying the ANC will self-correct
and self-cleanse. That is grand delusion. The Zuma problem has been there and
people are too afraid, too scared to act. Or are they mesmerised by Zuma’s
charms? Things are getting worse by the day. The ANC is decaying – decomposing
like a corpse. A golden
opportunity was handed to the ANC on Tuesday but they failed to seize it. They
cut their nose to spite their face. The nose is now bleeding profusely. The Second Law of
Nature is what the great scientist Albert Einstein discovered. Albert Einstein
says: No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that
created it. The paralysed ANC is submerged in a Zuma consciousness. And the Zuma
consciousness is corruption, the taking over of South Africa by the Guptas,
looting and so on. The solution to tackle the cancer eating South Africa is
outside the ANC. That is now very clear. That brings me
to the Third Law by yet another scientist, Sir Isaac Newton. Newton discovered the
first law of motion. This first law is referred to as the law of inertia. It
says an object at rest stays at rest and an object in motion stays in motion
with the same speed and in the same direction unless acted upon by an unbalanced
force. Newton, having
studied the natural universe is actually saying, if you keep doing the same
thing and keep getting the same results what makes you think that if you keep
doing it that way you will obtain a different result? The ANC's problem
is generally known and the people within the ANC are acutely aware and yet they
are paralysed; Unable to do anything and therefore they assume an act of
surrender. The Fourth Law
is the cosmic law. This is the Law of Courage. The Law of Courage says that if
you fail to confront the problem you are a victim of that problem. A victim
will never be a victor. ANC leaders are mere talkers. It is time to tune them
out. They are not genuine, they are not authentic, and they are two-faced. True leaders
excel in the way they respond to a major adversity. Great leaders separate
themselves from the pack of pretenders when they are tested by crises. What must be
done? What should you do? What does this mean to you? Will you surrender and
say this thing is too hard, the Guptas are too powerful? Citizenship requires
that you remain engaged. There is no good reason to abandon the war. To shrink
from such citizen duty is to die while you still breathe and to provide history
the reason to judge you harshly. Keep fighting for your troubled nation. Edmund
Burke once said, "The only thing necessary for evil to prosper is for good
men and women to do nothing.” Take it back! - Chris Kanyane is an MBA graduate with a focus in marketing and strategy. He is director at BestAfricans.com and has managing high level research at the Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) that fed into the National Development Plan (NDP). Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24. * Only comments that contribute to a constructive debate will be approved by moderators.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  