Alex Mitchley, News24  Omar Carrim (Supplied to News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria – Police now suspect that they may be dealing with a case of kidnapping after Pretoria businessman's vehicle was found burnt beyond recognition outside of Atteridgeville last week.  Omar Carrim, 76, went missing last Thursday at around 17:45 as he was on his way home from Hyper City which he owns.  Gauteng Community Safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane said on Monday, after a meeting with Carrim's family and police, they believe Carrim is still alive and that he is now being held captive.  "The information we have suggests we are dealing with a kidnapping case," said Nkosi-Malobane.  This includes evidence gathered as well as from a telephone call that one of Carrim's sons received, which they believe was their father.  However, Nkosi-Malobane said they would still not rule out other possibilities.  It was also noted that there has been no ransom demand since Carrim went missing.  Police are also conducting forensic tests on his Mercedes C300 that was burnt beyond recognition as well as bones that were found near the vehicle.  "We believe the bones don't belong to the old man as the bones aren't burnt beyond recognition as the vehicle was,'' said Nkosi-Malobane.  Police also found spectacles and papers with blood on them at one of the crime scenes behind Kgosi Mampuru II Prison.  The results of the forensic tests are expected before the end of the week.  Nkosi-Malobane said a team of investigators led by the police has been ring-fenced as a priority case. Social activist Yusuf Abramjee, who is also acting as a spokesperson for the family, asked the public to come forward with any information that can help in finding Carrim.  Amramjee also said there had been a lot of misinformation that has wasted time and resources.  This includes a number of prank calls being made to the family. In one of the calls received, someone pretended to be Carrim.  But a call was received that the family believe to be Carrim in which he said he was okay but needs his medication, the call was cut shortly after.  Abdulla Carrim said his father recently had a bypass surgery and needed his chronic heart medication.  Pretoria Central Cluster commander Major General Daniel Mthombeni said police were also investigating possible links in cases of a similar nature.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  