Maygene de Wee, Netwerk24 Inge Chantal Pruis and Freddie Pruis Jr during happier days. (Facebook via Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – The trial of a primary school teacher, her alleged lover and a suspected "hitman" who had to get rid of her estranged husband is set to start in the Regional Court in Parow, Cape Town, on Monday. Inge Chantal Pruis, also known as Chantal Pruis, her suspected lover, Dean Johnson, and Angelo Nico Isaacs are facing charges of conspiracy to commit murder, Netwerk24 reported. Isaacs is also accused of attempted murder and the illegal possession of ammunition. Pruis and Johnson are being accused of hiring Isaacs to kill Pruis' estranged husband, Freddie Pruis Jr. Isaacs is said to have stabbed Pruis 14 times with a dagger in October 2015 in Epping. Pruis survived the attack. The investigating officer, Captain Dean Kiewiets, testified in January 2016 that Pruis had met Isaacs in Epping to give him a quote on solar panels. Pruis is a businessman who, among other things, installs solar panels. Pruis, who had been sitting in his bakkie, managed to get away when he was attacked at about 19:00. 'Made a mess of it' Kiewiets testified that Pruis had almost run over the accused (Isaacs) as he reversed through a concrete wall to get to the fire brigade in Epping. He was given assistance there, before being taken to the N1 City Hospital. Kiewiets also testified at the time that there was no clear indication as to the motive for the attack, "although it might be financial". He testified that Inge had withdrawn R64 000 from an Allan Gray account in 2015. There were apparently SMS messages between Johnson and Isaacs, in which Isaacs is believed to have said that he still wanted his "R40 000’s worth". What exactly this was, Kiewiets couldn’t say. He also testified that Pruis had identified Isaacs without any hesitation the day that he [Isaacs] was arrested at work. In papers Inge submitted to the High Court in Cape Town in May 2016, she said that about three months after their affair had started, Johnson had told her that a friend who was supposed to have spoken to her husband about threats against her, had "made a mess of it". Her husband had apparently threatened that he would raise their son on his own if she left him. She denied that she knew Isaacs, who was arrested on November 26, 2015. Pruis and Johnson were arrested on December 19, 2015. They were released on bail of R10 000 each on December 28. Isaacs was also released on R10 000 bail on January 26.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  