PHOTO: sourcedThe Hilton Food & Wine Fair takes place on September 8 at 6pm. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories WINE lovers and food fanatics from Hilton and surrounds can look forward to testing, sampling and pairing wines from top wineries from around the world, with local dishes at the annual Hilton Food & Wine Fair which takes place on Friday, September 8 at the Protea Hotel in Hilton. The fair, now in its sixth year, offers guests an evening of mingling with the Hilton community while enjoying local and international wines and a plethora of bite-sized dishes while playing their part in giving back to Hilton Pre-Primary School. “Our annual Hilton Food & Wine Fair brings the tastes of the world’s wineries to the community and provides an opportunity to relax and enjoy socialising with family, friends and neighbours. “We are passionate about the local community and hope to make a difference within the community’s structures with events like the Hilton Food & Wine Fair. “Hilton Pre-Primary School do a wonderful job in providing our children with a solid base to make the most of their schooling future,” says Hilton Quarry Superspar & Tops store manager, Greg Downs. In 2011, the Hilton Food & Wine Fair partnered with Hilton Pre-Primary School to raise funds for the school. This year, all fund raising will go towards upgrading “the ducklings” area, their youngest class of children. Hilton Pre-Primary Principal Suzie Hilliar says the funds raised at the annual event has enabled the school to invest in the education of teachers, upgrade their sewerage system, purchase a JoJo tank and fix general maintenance issues. “We are appreciative of all the effort that Hilton Quarry Superspar and the community put into the well being of our school,” said Hilliar. Wineries taking part in this year’s event include Vrede en Lust, Olive Brook (Tops Wines) and Beverage Emporium, which will showcase various wines and craft beers. In addition, a selection of local cheeses and delicatessen sampling boards will be available from Col’Tempo, Oscars Deli Meats, Riversmead Poultry, Triple A Beef, Indezi River Creamery, Gourmet Greek and Graceland Cheese. Tickets are R100 per person, available in-store or at the door. The fair starts at 6pm, so make sure that you and your friends don’t miss out by booking your tickets in advance­. For more information or to book tickets, contact Hilton Quarry Superspar on 033 343 1210 or 033 343 4090, or follow Hilton Quarry Superspar & Tops on Facebook and Instagram to stand a chance of winning tickets. - Supplied. WIN WITH HILTON FOOD & WINE FAIR AND ‘MARITZBURG FEVER’ One reader will get the chance to win a double ticket to the event. All you have to do is visit our Facebook page, find the Hilton Food & Wine Fair and follow the instructions. Good luck. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  