Jeanette Chabalala, News24 Mark Warona Zinde, son of Hope Zinde, appears in the Brits Regional Court (Jeanette Chabalala, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria – Psychiatric hospital Weskoppies has requested another 30 days for an evaluation of Mark Zinde, who stands accused of murdering his mother, former SABC board member Hope Zinde. His lawyer Francois Joubert appeared briefly in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria on Wednesday, in the absence of Zinde. The matter was postponed to September 29. During his last appearance Zinde shouted profanities at the court on his way down to the holding cells. "F**king funny you f**k heads, where's that b***h!" he shouted at the time. He then lifted his middle finger toward the bench as he was being escorted down to the High Court's holding cells. Zinde's matter, which was supposed to go on trial, has been postponed a number of times due to his lawyer requesting Zinde be admitted for evaluation. Bail rescinded Zinde was previously admitted to Weskoppies for psychiatric evaluation for the alleged murder of his mother where four psychiatrists found that Zinde could follow court proceedings, had a criminal capacity and that he could distinguish between right and wrong. The new evaluation would not be on the murder charges, but for the attempted murder and assault charges after he allegedly attacked his father, Lebohang Mohale Manoto, in November 2016 while out on bail for allegedly killing his mother. Zinde's bail has since been rescinded. The four charges Zinde is facing have been centralised. He is facing charges of murder, attempted murder, assault and possession of illegal substances. Zinde was arrested in June 2016 after his 50-year-old mother's body was found in the boot of her Range Rover at her home in Pecanwood Estate, Hartbeespoort. At the time, it was reported that a friend had struggled to get hold of her for a few days and that her son had refused to open the door to their home. He only opened it when police arrived.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  