Mbongiseni Maseko Councillor Brett Herron, the city’s mayoral committee member for Transport and Urban Development, Ndindela Tshwete, deputy chairperson for portfolio committee for the city’s Transport and Urban Development Authority, councillor Khaya Yozi, of Ward 39, and residents during the sod-turning, on Tuesday, in KTC, Nyanga.PHOTO: Mbongiseni maseko 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     After waiting for years to have a place to call home, residents from a Nyanga informal settlement have the hope that their dreams will be fullfilled at last. This comes after a sod-turning ceremony to mark the start of construction of the Phase Three of the People’s Housing Project in KTC on Tuesday. Councillor Brett Herron, the city’s mayoral committee member for Transport and Urban Development, together with Ndindela Tshwete, the deputy chairperson of the Portfolio Committee for the city’s Transport and Urban Development Authority and Ward 39 Councillor Khaya Yozi, graced the occassion, in the company of a number of residents. According a media statement by the City, the project will cost R36 million for the construction of 235 houses. Herron said the construction should start “anytime from today and be completed in 14 months time.” “One hundred of the beneficiaries will be senior citizens. Two of the beneficiaries are disabled and their houses will be built to suit their needs. This project faced many challenges like most of the projects. Community complain about supply chain among other things. There were many obstacles, but now we are going to start with the construction,” Herron said. Yozi said the beneficiaries were selected from a list of 814.  “I have mixed emotions about the project. The houses should have been built roughly in 2013, but there were delays from the then constructor and the changing of managers in the Transport and Urban Development Authority.  Some of the beneficiaries of the project have since passed away waiting for their houses. I hope that there will be no more death of beneficiaries before occupying his or her house. I also hope there will not be any glitches now that will stop the construction. I am happy on the other hand,” Yozi said. He also said they are going to publicise the names of the beneficiaries in newspapers and public spaces and that residents should keep on checking if their names appear there. Yozi said they will prioritise the senior citizens and those that live with disabled in the project. Tshwete said the project is going to change the lives of residents in a good way. “We are very proud of the project. Our main aim is to ensure that we improve the lives of people. The major challenge that we have is the shortage of land in the city. We are now planning to build houses for people closer to the city and closer to the work places. That will help them save money on transport and also make more time available for them to spend with their families. We are also going to help insure their houses and for them to draft a will,” Tshwete said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  