Pheto Ramakobya Mine shaft 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Zama-zama miners from all over the country marched on the Department of Mineral Resources demanding an immediate moratorium of the persecution of illegal miners and the decriminalisation of their trade.WATCH  THE community of Matholeville, in Roodepoort, is living in
fear because Zama Zamas are digging under their houses. This is according to a
resident, who did not want to be name for fear of his life. The man claims
their councillor is also ignoring their pleas. 
 HOLE IN THE KITCHEN   The resident alleges that their councillor, Sabelo Ncana,
doesn’t care about their well-being and safety as he no longer lives in the
area. He says the illegal miners have taken over their neighbourhood and
community members are scared of them. He says he is scared to sleep in his
shack that has been his home for about 30 years, because of the hollow sphere
beneath it. “I’m forced to seek shelter at a friend’s house even though I have
my own place. My kitchen floor has a huge hole in it that was caused by the
drilling made by the Zama Zamas. I don’t know how deep the hole goes but it’s
quite deep as I’ve tried to fill it up with water and the hole just swallows
the water without it over-flooding,” he says. 
“During the night you can hear the Zama Zamas grinding and drilling.
Sometimes it causes our shacks to vibrate. We live in constant fear that our
houses will collapse and disappear under the earth.”     ZAMA ZAMAS IN ACTION   He also explains that they have been complaining about their
living conditions to the authorities, but no 
one seems to take them seriously. “I’ve been going up and down for the
last couple of years trying to get help, but every door I knock on seems to be
a dead-end or they just send me to another department. Our councillor is not
interested in our concerns,” he says. Move! visited the informal settlement
where he lives. On our arrival, we could see the Zama Zamas in action right in
front of the residents. Matholeville is
located near an abandoned mining shaft that is now used by the Zama Zamas to
salvage the left-over gold. “This is what we call life, we see them every day
as if it’s lawful for them to do their mining here,” says the angry resident. Move!
also discovered that most of the illegal miners live  in the area. The resident says that the Zama
Zamas are not originally from Matholeville, but are people who come from as far
as Maputo in Mozambique. “So they don’t
care what happens to our land,” says the resident. “The Zama Zamas are mostly
foreign nationals that came here just for the gold. GUNSHOTS AND SCREAMING  Another resident, who didn’t want to be named, as he fears
that the Zama Zamas might hunt him down, says that their lives are also put at
risk when the illegal miners fight for territory. “Almost every night you can
hear gunshots, people running and screaming and we all know that’s the
disturbance caused by the illegal miners. They kill each other over disputes
for better territories,” says the other resident. “I don’t allow my children to play near the
old shafts and as soon as the sun sets they know they are supposed to be home.
The crime levels are so high and there is hardly any police intervention.”  PROTEST AGAINST COUNCILLOR  The residents are not pleased the way things are done by
their councillor. Their basic sanitation needs are not been met at all on top
of the Zama Zama problem they’re facing. Late last year, Matholeville residents hogged headlines as they took to
the streets to protest against their councillor and the violence caused by the
illegal miners. A few months later, they’re still not pleased as nothing has
changed. “We have been protesting for
nothing as we still face the same problems, and people are still getting robbed
and killed,” said another resident. In our first attempt to talk to councillor
Sabelo, he said that he’s aware of the residents’ concerns and won’t continue
talking to Move! until he gets the names of the people that were interviewed.“I
do know about the zama zama situation. But I won’t prolong this conversation
any longer till you name those people who said all of those allegations about
me,” he said. On our second attempt, Sabelo says the crisis in his ward is
beyond redemption. “We have tried on
numerous occasions to put in place strict measures by engaging the police, the
department of Minerals and Energy, but the problem is that money is exchanging
hands. We have closed so many shafts but illegal miners open them again. These
miners also bribe residents and the police,” he says  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  