Mike Van Rooyen, Netwerk24  Peter Frederiksen (File, Jeanette Chabalala, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Bloemfontein – A Danish arms dealer from Bloemfontein has denied 58 charges levelled against him in the Free State High Court on Monday.  Peter Frederiksen made headlines in September 2015 when he was found with cut-off clitorises stored in a freezer inside his townhouse.  Netwerk24 reported that the case was heard in camera before Judge Johann Daffue for the testimony of a girl who was allegedly raped by Frederiksen when she was nine years old. State prosecutor Advocate Amanda Bester abandoned three charges of human trafficking, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm and rape against Frederiksen.  The charges were in relation to an allegation that he made a small hole in a clitoris of a 25-year-old woman from Lesotho.  He is accused of a similar charge in relation to his wife in Lesotho, Anna Matseliso Molise.  He allegedly cut her clitoris in February 2015 and assaulted her in September 2015 by smacking her. She was shot dead in front of her home in Maseru in October 2015.  Frederiksen, who was awaiting trial in the Grootvlei Prison at the time, is also accused of conspiring to have her killed.  Several of the charges against him are in relation to the clitorises he allegedly removed from nine women - with or without their permission - in his townhouse in Langenhovenpark, Bloemfontein.  He also faces 18 charges for the production and possession of child pornography. One of the charges is that he raped a nine-year-old girl between 2011 and 2015.  Frederiksen is furthermore standing trial on charges of fraud and contravention of the firearms law.  He is also accused of providing false information when he applied for a residence permit in South Africa.  According to the State, he paid a state witness R2 000 to testify in his favour during his trial. Marius Bruwer is representing Frederiksen on instruction from Steenkamp and Jansen-attorneys. The case is expected to continue on Tuesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  