Jenna Etheridge, News24 Nompumelelo Ntuli-Zuma (GCIS) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – President Jacob Zuma’s wife Nompumelelo Ntuli-Zuma, who remains a suspect in a case involving an alleged plot to poison her husband, just wants the matter to be finalised. "If there is merit in the charge, that is fine, they must charge her," her lawyer Ulrich Roux told News24 on Thursday. "She is adamant that she has nothing to do with a so-called plot to try and assassinate or kill the president." The Hawks confirmed on Thursday that they had completed their investigation into the matter and were busy with the docket. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said they were just dealing with a few matters raised by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). "These need to be finalised, but it will be a short space of time and then the docket will go back to the NPA for a final decision on whether to prosecute." NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku said they received the docket initially and handed it to acting head of the Priority Crimes Litigation Unit, Dr Torie Pretorius. Pretorius was still busy representing the State in the Ahmed Timol inquest. "If they have returned the docket to the NPA, he would not have had a chance to look at it." Roux previously told News24 they had been kept in the dark after asking the NPA for information on the charges against his client, who the "so-called co-accused" were and whether the investigation had been completed. On Thursday, he said the only update they had received after numerous enquiries was that Pretorius was assigned to the matter. Roux was told they could expect feedback soon. Ntuli-Zuma had not been living at the Nkandla homestead since January 2015. Roux said at the time that she had been instructed by State Security Minister David Mahlobo to vacate the residence "pending an alleged investigation". Also read: Zuma's wife ordered off Nkandla homestead by state security minister - attorney She found another place to stay with her three minor children. The Sunday Times reported that in August 2014, during a trip to the US, doctors diagnosed Zuma as having been poisoned and, for a second opinion, he went to Russia for treatment. Russian doctors reportedly confirmed the diagnosis.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  