Caryn Dolley, News24 (Kyle Olinsky, Youtube) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Women are exposed to gender-based violence in the form of sexual harassment, sexual assault, and rape when using public transportation in South Africa, a survey has revealed. Watch. 

WATCH NOTE: Story contains strong and offensive language Cape Town - Local Youtuber Kyle Olinsky found himself in hot water last week after what appeared to be threatening and sexually abusive messages surfaced and which he apparently sent to women via Instagram. Although Olinsky, 21, of Gauteng, and the one woman to whom he sent the messages later claimed it was only a joke, he did apologise, reportedly saying he has never before spoken to someone like that. But it appears he may have a history of viewing women in a demeaning way. An Instagram account under his name includes posts, visible to other Instagrammers not following the account, which include the words "sluts" and "whore". While the posts appear under accounts with his name or referring to his YouTube name, it was not clear if Olinsky himself posted the images. By noon on Friday Olinsky's legal representative, Andre du Plessis, was not yet able to answer News24 queries sent on Thursday about the Instagram posts, including whether Olinsky himself was behind these. "We are in the process of taking instructions from our client and will revert," he said. "Our failure to deal with any one allegation should not be construed as an admission of that allegation and we reserve our client’s rights to expand upon this letter in the appropriate forum and at the appropriate time. All our client’s rights remain strictly reserved." 'Threatening and abusive' Olinsky, who has more than 7 500 subscribers on his YouTube channel BluRz, a gaming stream, last Wednesday became the focus of the sexual harassment allegations when it emerged he had sent sexually explicit messages to a woman, saying she cannot say no to having sex with him as he is stronger than her. However, letters sent from his lawyer, said the messages were private and between two parties and were not meant to cause harm. The woman who had received the messages, in a letter sent from Olinsky's lawyer, said the same. Last Thursday another woman, 19, from Durban, told News24 she had also randomly received several "threatening and abusive" messages from Olinsky and two of his friends via Instagram on Monday. She does not know them and does not follow them on Instagram. Her family, she said, had settled the matter with Olinsky who she said had apologised. In response to a News24 query on these claims, Du Plessis said his client did not plan to respond. "We reserve our client's rights to expand upon any issues in the appropriate forum and at the appropriate time should it become necessary," he said. "Our client denies any allegations and reserves the right to formally reply should same be nearly. All our client's rights are hereby reserved." Abusive language The woman who said she received the messages from Olinsky and his two friends advised anyone who found themselves in a similar situation to report the matter, to family and even police. She said her family had approached police in Durban, who had taken the matter seriously. However, because she said the matter was resolved with Olinsky, they did not pursue this route. On Instagram, an older account under the name Kyle Olinsky, and kyliekylezz, shows several photos and images, including young people posing together and parked cars. However, the wording on some images - text on a plain background - is questionable. One from May 2013 says: "Cry over cuts and stitches, NOT sluts and bitches." Another from May 2013 says: "Control your whoremones, slut" Another account, official_blurz_memepage, with 56 followers and which encourages users to follow what appears to be his "public figure" account and subscribe to his Youtube channel BluRz, shows several images of him converted into memes. One image showing a face with a puzzled expression says: "When she says no to anal." In another Olinsky seems to poke fun at himself. It is of a picture of a man who appears to be himself pasted onto the image of a boy, sitting next to an ape and another young boy. It is captioned: "It warms my heart seeing fathers spending time with their kids." Olinsky's public figure Instagram account, kyle_blurz, with 1 652 followers, on Friday showed two posts, one relating to his videos and streaming. It is a screenshot of a message from someone thanking him and saying Olinsky's videos made him feel better about himself when he was feeling depressed. Olinsky, in the screenshot, replies asking if the message sender is okay and says he's glad to have helped. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  