Jenna Etheridge, News24 Ferra Thompson was murdered in her home in Pringle Bay. (Facebook) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – A gardener accused of killing a Pringle Bay woman he worked for has made his first appearance in the Caledon Magistrate’s Court in the Western Cape. When Martin Ncube, 20, stood in the dock on Thursday, he revealed he had decided to abandon his bail application, investigating officer Captain Danie Rautenbach said on Friday. Ncube, who was from Zimbabwe but apparently lived in Kleinmond, would remain in custody until his next appearance in October. He is accused of killing Ferra Thompson, 52, and stealing her car. Thompson was found dead in the bedroom of her double-storey home on Monday morning. A post-mortem was being conducted to determine the cause of death. Well-placed sources previously told News24 that Ncube had come across as a "nice guy" and "decent". Ncube helped with gardening and maintenance. He had apparently worked at the house on Sundays for the last month or two. Thompson's Honda Jazz was reported missing and later recovered around 30km away, near the turn-off to Hermanus. It was burnt out. According to one source, the accused had a slight burn wound and allegedly admitted to police that he stole the car. Several signs pointed to the fact that Thompson knew her attacker. "There was no forced entry at the place. She had two dogs in the house. There were cups of coffee on the table," the source said. Pringle Bay is a popular holiday town just over an hour's drive from Cape Town. Thompson was a permanent resident in the town while her husband worked in Tanzania. She had two adult sons. Hangklip-Kleinmond CPF chairperson Edward Richards previously told News24 that they had not had violent crime in Pringle Bay for many years. "It is terrible and such an unfortunate situation. We don't exactly know what the motive is," he said. Axel Maier, a member of the ratepayers' association, said they helped police track down the stolen car using licence plate recognition cameras.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  