Sello Morapedi 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      A CIVIL engineering graduate from the Tshwane South College,
Brian Mofokeng (25)*, says he was forced to go to an initiation school to
become a “real man.” Although Brian's circumcision happened a few years ago, he
is fearful of revealing his true identity as he speaks to Move! about his
experience.  THE HORROR OF BEING KIDNAPPED  Brian, who is from Lefiswane, Mpumalanga, says the day he
was kidnapped and taken to the initiation school was the scariest day of his
life. He says the abduction happened while he was home for the school holidays.
He was asked by an older man he knew from around the neighbourhood to accompany
him somewhere and he agreed, but he never thought it would be the last time he
was home. “One minute I was walking with the man and the next minute I was
surrounded by three other men who told me that today was the first day I was
going to be a man and I was not going back home until I became a man. Out of fear
I screamed and tried to run away, but they were too strong for me,” recalls
Brian.    MAKING PEACE WITH THE SITUATION  Brian says when he got to the initiation school, he saw a
few boys he knew from his neighbourhood and was told that he had delayed coming
to the mountain. He found out that the
people at the initiation school had spoken to his family about him going to the
initiation school and felt that this was the only way they could bring him
there. “I couldn’t believe that my family knew! After I had a talk with some of
the guys, I calmed myself down and accepted the situation,” he says. He adds, “I was circumcised, but I cannot go
into detail about the procedure itself due to our traditional values and
beliefs, which I was taught at the mountain. We are not allowed to talk about
these things.” THE CHALLENGES  Brian says while at the initiation school, he spent an
entire month eating canned food and no meat was served.  He also had to come to terms with the fact
that he was not allowed to bath, only to brush his teeth. “I was only allowed
to wear a blanket. I got sick at one point and was told I had to be a man and
be strong. I began fearing for my life and prayed for God’s protection. I had
to be strong because they made it very clear that once you are there, there is
no turning back. I was going to leave as a man,” says Brian. WHAT HE LEARNED AT THE INITIATION SCHOOL  Brian says they sang, danced and were taught how to behave
as men. “We were taught to communicate in a manner that showed that we are now
men. We were also taught to behave and present ourselves as men in society. We
were even told that our dress code should differentiate us from our peers,” he
says. NEGATIVE THOUGHTS  He says although he accepted the situation, he still had
negative thoughts and wondered why his family let him go there and what would
happen if he died on the mountain. “I would sometimes get very scared and ask
myself if I would live to see another day because I used to read about boys who
went to the mountain but never made it out alive,” he says. “But not all
traditional circumcisions are botched and they differ with every culture and
even some religions.” HIS HOMECOMING  Brian says on the morning he went back home, he was happy
and filled with so much love and peace and could not wait to see his family. Many
people had gathered at his home to welcome him back from the initiation school,
which he says he never expected. “There were so many people waiting to welcome
me home, from my friends to my family and relatives. They were all there
waiting for me and they came with gifts,” he says. “My family slaughtered two
cows, one to welcome me back and another to celebrate the fact that I was
officially a man.”  MOVING ON WITH LIFE  Brian says being kidnapped and forced to go to initiation
school haunted him for some time, but looking back at how his family and
friends were happy and proud of him helped him get through it and he does not
have any regrets. “I guess our elders sometimes know what is good for us even
though we might question the way they do things. I now see things differently,
especially as I have transitioned from a boy into a man,” says Brian. * Not his
real name  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  