Andile Sithole Ward councillor Dolly Munien (middle), DA PR councillor Chris Langa (far right) and neighbours inspect the remains of the house that was destroyed by fire.Photo: andile sithole 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     TWO people died in the Newtown area near Hambanathi Township after their shack caught fire last Tuesday night at around 8.30pm. The cause of the fire is yet to be established, however, neighbours told the Weekly that a candle fell and the carpet on the floor caught fire.  Thandi Dlamini (50) and Bobs Mhlongo (60) were found dead in a wood and iron structure, that belonged to the Mhlongo family, by neighbours. According to the Mhlongo family, they were  both  well  known  in  the  community. Family spokesperson Siya Mhlongo said his younger brother who saw the smoke emanating from the shack alerted other family members. “They were not employed, their only source of income was the money generated from selling scrap metals.  “They came to our house early this year looking for a rental house.  “We offered them our spare room [behind the main house] to stay.” Mhlongo said the family and neighbours were still reeling from shock after the incident. Umhlanga fire station Division Commander Jay Kanniappen said when fire fighters arrived at the scene the dwelling was engulfed into flames. “The informal dwelling was completed gutted.  “There were two bodies located there, badly burnt.  “We extinguish the fire using high pressure hose reel. Thee bodies were taken to the mortuary.  “The cause of the fire is not known.”  Ward councillor Dolly Munien visited the family to sympathise with the victims’ families last week. SAPS Tongaat spokesperson Captain Patrick Ngwane said: “Police attended a complaint of a house on fire in Newtown. On arrival the police discovered two bodies burnt beyond recognition.  “The two bodies were taken to Phoenix mortuary for post mortem to be held. An inquest docket had been opened and the matter is under investigation.”  
  
   
  
      
     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  