A VERULAM man, whose fake ID copies and other personal documents were used in a fraudulent scam to sign for cellphone contracts in different stores in Gateway and Cape Town, accused cellphone stores of being negligent. Shikar Sookdeo from Redcliffe said he has been inundated with calls and SMS’s from different cellphone outlets reminding him about his 15 cellphone contracts that he “signed” in June and August. Sookdeo told the Weekly he started receiving calls and messages from the outlets on June 22. “I suspect that a con artist faked my ID, payslip, proof of residence and then opened accounts at the four cellphone outlets in Durban. On Monday [August 21] I received another call from a cellphone store in Cape Town reminding me that I have a contract with them. Every month the stores debit R296 for each cellphone from my bank account.” Sookdeo said the messages received from these stores reflected that he took cellphone contracts for iPhones and a Samsung S7. “The total amount of all these cellphones is close to R20 000. “This is quite sad to see the negligence of cellphone outlets. How can they give people contracts without verifying their details? “I phoned all of these stores and told them I do not have any contracts with them. “I was told to get an affidavit from a police station stating that I did not take out any cellphone contracts.” Sookdeo said he still receives SMS notifications from his bank reflecting debit orders made by cellphone outlets. Sookdeo claimed that the suspect also went to his bank and obtained bank statements of his account. “My ID is always kept safely at home. The police must work hard and arrest the suspect.” SAPS KZN spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case of fraud was opened at Berea police station and transferred to Durban North SAPS. “Cash was allegedly debited from the complainant’s bank account by a tele or cellphone service providers from a contract he did not sign for. “The case is under investigation and no arrest has been made at this stage.” Police said there were similar cases reported this year, and are all being investigated.