Photos: Margaux Solinas Cape Town - The #UniteBehind coalition took to the streets of Cape Town on Monday afternoon in a bid to pressurise MPs to oust President Jacob Zuma during a motion of no confidence set to take place on Tuesday.  The coalition, which is made up of over 20 community, activist and faith-based organisations, marched from Keizersgracht Street to Parliament.  During the march, National Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete announced that the motion of no confidence in Zuma will take place through a secret ballot.  Below are some pictures of the marchers and their reasons why they decided to take to the streets in protest:   "We want democracy. We lost track of Mandela's vision. Their leadership is only for them." - Henri Fredericks, member of NGO called Surplus People Project  "It is the second time we come here. We want to make sure President Zuma falls this time." - Dr John Rogers, retired UCT geologist.  "Because I care for my country and our president has betrayed us all! He is corrupted and it's evident. I am here as part of the civil society to call for a change." - Fiona Scorgie, anthropologist   "I'm done with corruption, enough is enough." - Luvuyo Mgodo, student  "I am an activist. I help people. We feel that with all that is happening in this country, the one feeling the bad impacts are the poorest. Now we feel If ANC cannot recall Zuma we should remind them 11 million people voted for them and they should put citizens first and not politicians." - Mpumi Mamtanga, Western Cape head of the Treatment Action Campaign   "I'm here as part of a peaceful organisation. I don't march against anyone. We are just here to verify that no peaceful agreement is broken. It Is a constitutional right to march in peace. We are here to check that this duty is fulfilled." - Annie Kirke, spokesperson of the SA Christian leadership as part of peace monitor  "We want to tell members of the Parliament and President Jacob Zuma we are really unhappy with the situation in South Africa." - Rod Salomon, Leader of SAFirst Forum 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  