Marelize Potgieter, YOU PHOTO: Supplied  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Anchen Muller
(13) from Brackenfell has been found – but now a verbal war is being waged on
her Facebook page. Next to a
picture of her dad’s tattooed shoulder, people have been posting strong
opinions about the strange circumstances surrounding the teenager’s disappearance
and the way she was later found. The argument
has gotten so heated that Cindy Muller commented: “Time to close this FB
profile.” Felicia Scott
Alberts wrote she agrees, but that it’s probably still open because a police
investigation is under way.  Other comments
included screenshots of Facebook posts in which it’s clear that Anchen had been
planning to run away from home. When she first
disappeared, the overwhelming reaction from the public was shock. But as the
days went by, more and more people started commenting on the Facebook comments
adult men had made next to the 13-year-old’s Facebook pictures.  She was also
heavily criticised for a screenshot of an online conversation she’d had with a
friend in which she insulted her “taanie”. On the Cape Flats the word
“taanie” refers to one’s mother. When the news broke on Monday that Anchen had been
missing since Friday, many people feared the worst. Anchen’s mom, Hanlie
Ferreira, told newspapers that her daughter had told her she was going to stay with
a friend, but Hanlie wasn’t sure if that ever happened.  News24.com reported
that police found Anchen on Tuesday night at about 10.30 pm in a shack in
Bishop Lavis on the Cape Flats. She’d allegedly left home to go to a friend’s house
in Bishop Lavis but he’d apparently asked her to leave because his parents were
unhappy about her presence. Reynhardt posted his gratitude on Facebook for
everybody who’d help find his daughter, adding that he thinks the negative
comments are unnecessary.  “The only thing that matters is that my child is safe
and that I didn’t have to see her in the bushes or a dustbin.” When approached for comment on the investigation
into Anchen’s disappearance, police issued a statement confirming she’d been
found and delivered to her parents. Anchen’s mother referred enquiries to the police.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  