Tania Broughton, News24 Correspondent 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban - Alleged Road Accident Fund (RAF) conman Mohamed Ebrahim - accused of R6m fraud by pretending to be a quadriplegic - says his condition "comes and goes". In a written affidavit in his request for bail, which came before Durban Commercial Crime Court Magistrate Judy Naidoo on Friday, the former Pietermaritzburg policeman says he suffers from "arachnoiditis". "On some days I am able to walk unassisted but on other days the pain is so excruciating I cannot walk at all. This is why it may appear to observers that I am faking my condition," he said. Ebrahim was arrested earlier this month and initially denied bail.  His wife, Asha, son Junaid and daughter-in-law Nerosha Nohar - alleged to have claimed R430 000 from the fund to "take care" of him -  were arrested on Thursday, appeared in court and were granted bail of R5 000 each. On Friday all four were back in the dock. The State did not oppose bail and Ebrahim was released on R30 000. The State alleges that Ebrahim was never involved in a car accident and his claim that he was paralysed from the neck down was a lie. But Ebrahim - and his relatives - all say the payout from the RAF came about as a result of a three-day trial before a judge which proved that he had been seriously injured in the accident in 2002. Ebrahim says his health is poor - largely a result of the accident. He denies any guilt and says he proved his case against the RAF in the High Court. 'The State has no case' He lists 21 specialists who did "medical analysis, testing and treatment" and provided reports for his case. "The majority of reports confirm my condition….but it is ironic that since my arrest I have been taken back to see two specialists, employed by the RAF, who, prior to trial, indicated that I had no injuries. "I must point out that the court and the fund and its legal team were in possession of these reports prior to agreeing to pay damages." Ebrahim said a Dr Rob Campbell had confirmed he suffered from "arachnoiditis", which results in adhesions between neural structures. "It may result in varying degrees of disruption of motor, sensory and visceral function which may be spotty and without obvious and anatomical distribution. In simple terms, my condition can come and go," he said. "The State has no case against me at all." The matter was adjourned until October.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  