Nadim Nyker PHOTO: Getty Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Eight million tons of plastic pollute the world’s oceans every year. That’s a whopping 15 000kg of plastic dumped into the ocean every minute, causing havoc on the ocean’s sensitive eco-system. And now a giant whale is taking a stand.  As part of an awareness campaign into plastic pollution Sky Ocean Rescue has unveiled a 10-m whale made from single-use plastic. The plastic whale weighs 250kg, to mark the amount of plastic dumped into the ocean every second. The whale will visit various iconic beaches and waterfronts across the UK as part of the campaign as well as travelling across Europe,. Legendary explorer, Sir Ranulph Fiennes, who was the first person to cross both the North and South pole by land, has lent his support to the initiative and has spoken out against overwhelming use of plastic around the globe. “The University of Plymouth has come out with the fact that 40% percent of all fish they’ve cut open have got micro plastics inside,” Fiennes says, “which we then eat.” “Sky Ocean Rescue is absolutely vital because the plastic inside the ocean is an example of mankind definitely making an effect on climate change.” Adding to the symbolism of the whale is that the majority of plastic it was constructed of was pulled from UK beaches and seas. Plastic takes a staggering 450 years to disintegrate, with some plastic bottles taking up to a millennium. As well as creating awareness, the campaign aims put pressure on governments to place a tax on plastic packaging that is made for single-use only. Destinations on the whale’s itinerary include London, Newcastle, Cardiff, Blackpool and Edinburgh. You can follow the whale’s journey on @skyoceanrescue and check out the plastic whale below.  Sources: Sky News, Postconsumers.com 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  