Oscar Pistorius (File, Pool) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Somerset West — Oscar Pistorius will be kept in hospital overnight following medical examinations believed to be related to chest pains. The former track star and convicted murderer was taken to the hospital on Thursday morning and was expected to return to the prison later the same day, deputy commissioner of communications from the department of correctional services, Logan Maistry, told The Associated Press.  However, he added that Pistorius will now stay overnight in the hospital "for observation". Maistry declined to give details of Pistorius' medical complaint, citing department rules preventing the divulging of information on offenders. He only noted that Pistorius was having "medical examinations". READ: Oscar Pistorius taken to hospital Reports claimed Pistorius was suffering from chest pains and was taken from Atteridgeville Prison to the emergency department at Kalafong Hospital in Pretoria by ambulance, and escorted by armed guards. Maistry declined to comment on the reports, while a spokesperson for Pistorius didn't immediately return a phone call from the AP seeking comment. Pistorius, the double-amputee Olympic runner and multiple Paralympic champion, is serving a six-year jail term for murder in the shooting death of girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in 2013. He has served a year of his sentence. READ: Oscar Pistorius transferred to different prison The 30-year-old Pistorius was first imprisoned at the Kgosi Mampuru II Prison in central Pretoria but was moved to Atteridgeville because it was better suited to handle disabled inmates. This is the second time Pistorius has left jail for a hospital visit. Last year he was taken to the hospital for treatment to cuts on his wrists, which prison authorities said he sustained after falling in his cell.  Pistorius was convicted of murder after an appeal by prosecutors against an initial manslaughter verdict. He killed Steenkamp in the early hours of Valentine's Day by shooting her multiple times through a toilet cubicle door at his Pretoria home. Pistorius claimed he mistook his girlfriend for an intruder. Prosecutors have announced their intention to appeal again, this time against Pistorius' six-year sentence, which they say is too lenient. The National Prosecuting Authority said it will appeal to South Africa's Supreme Court, and the appeal could be heard this year. Pistorius faces having his sentence increased to 15 years if prosecutors are successful.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  