News24 Correspondent (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - Cars without number plates parked outside his house. His dogs
poisoned. Ahead of a planned civil servants' go-slow over unpaid bonuses
in Zimbabwe on Monday, a teachers' union chief has been complaining about what
he says is state harassment. In a string of tweets posted over the last few days, Raymond
Majongwe of the Progressive Teachers' Union of Zimbabwe has hit back at a smear
campaign in state media. "Someone must come and ask my neighbours [about] the state
harassment I endure. I always wonder when I read people accusing me of links
with ZANU. SO SAD," Majongwe said. Report for work but don't teach Monday's job action was initially billed as a strike and there
was talk of demonstrations. But now teachers are being advised to report for work but not
teach as negotiations continue, according to a statement from the APEX Council,
which represents all civil servants. Teachers are angry that they haven't been
paid their 13th salary cheques from 2016 and they're unhappy with a government
offer to give them housing stands (which they'll still have to pay for).
Hospital doctors have just ended a strike over pay after minimal concessions
were made. State media, which is overwhelmingly loyal to President Robert
Mugabe, has been very critical of the strike plans. The Herald newspaper
published a photo of Majongwe's home and suggested that he and other union chiefs
were getting "rich pickings" from union members' subscriptions. Photos published The PTUZ boss hit back angrily, claiming police officers had
walked into his house in a middle-income suburb of Harare to harass his family.
"Photos of everything taken even children," he tweeted. Later he added: "As usual another unplated car was parked
here with no driver in sight. But next thing it's gone." There's no independent confirmation of the union boss's claims
- and it needs to be said that Majongwe's outspokenness has earned him critics
both from among Mugabe's supporters and those who wouldn't consider
themselves aligned to the Zimbabwe government. Ex-fin min's support But state media's attack on Majongwe earned him some sympathy - and former finance minister Tendai Biti tweeted his support. "The attack on Ray Majongwe & other Union leaders is
crude & below the belt. It is hypocritical & unwarranted. @HeraldZimbabwe is shameless," Biti said. Threats Ahead of Monday's go-slow, Public Service and Social Welfare
Minister Minister Prisca Mupfumira told the privately-owned Standard newspaper:
"We have deployed inspectors across the country and anyone not working
will face the consequences." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  