Thulani Gqirana, News24ANC regional congress in NMB. (Thulani Gqirana, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; Members of the ANC must stop attacking other party leaders in public, including President Jacob Zuma, National Executive Committee member Zizi Kodwa has said.The party needed to guard against people viewing the party as an employment agency, he said. Speaking on the second day of the ANC congress in Nelson Mandela Bay, Kodwa cautioned against shortsighted leadership. The party is in the process of electing a new leadership for the region, more than two years after President Jacob Zuma disbanded it. One of the biggest problems the party faced was constant infighting. He said one of the most important things to do as part of the ANC was to accept the decisions of the party, even if you do not agree with them. The members had to refrain from going outside conference and mobilising against the ANC, if they did not agree with its decisions. This included not attacking leaders of the party in public. "If leaders of the ANC attack each other, that weakens the ANC," he said. Members of the party went around attacking Zuma, he said, then inviting him to speak at rallies during election time.Eat money"How are people supposed to trust that then?" he said. Kodwa said following their performance in the 2016 elections, people raised concerns that the party was in it to "eat money".&nbsp;There were only a few brave people now who would say they would die for the ANC. "Now, there is this thing called political patronage. Loyalty is not to the party, but to an individual," he said. The ANC in Nelson Mandela Bay had to look beyond the congress to the elections in 2019 and 2021.&nbsp; "Don&rsquo;t take this as a do or die. We must reclaim back this metro," he said. Kodwa said the coalition government in Nelson Mandela Bay was crumbling. "The ANC could be back in power before 2019. But if we are fighting within ourselves, that possibility might be an impossibility," he said.&nbsp; Former ANC youth league deputy president Andile Lungisa is up against MPL Tony Duba for the leadership position.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.