Tammy Petersen, News24Western Cape police (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A grateful Kuils River mother on Friday said she was relieved that her missing daughter is back home safely.Police and members of the Highbury Neighbourhood Watch found Macaela du Preez, 17, unharmed at a house in Strand, her mother Sharon Mallanna said.She was last seen in Highbury, on her way to school, on March 2.Mallanna said the family had been dealing with the police and social workers the entire day. She was appreciative of everyone who had helped find her daughter.The investigating officer had gone to the Strand house earlier that day, but the occupants had denied that Macaela was there, she explained."But he told me he would return last night. Our local neighbourhood watch wanted to help and, in their own cars, went with the police to where she was. These complete strangers went the extra mile to find her," Mallanna told News24.'Tour the country'She said her daughter was being a "rebellious teenager" and ran away because she didn't want to talk things through."But we will get through this together. There will be a long road to recovery, with a lot of counselling and mediation."To our neighbourhood watch members Fernando Cloete, Clement Harricombe, Dennis de Wit, Benjamimn Daniels, Stan Adriaanse, Mark Swart and Warren Isaacs, as well as Dessie Rechner of the Pink Ladies, thank you for bringing my daughter back home."On Tuesday, two Kuils River teenagers - Robyn van Leeve, 19, and Nayoca Plato, 17 - were found in Roodepoort, Gauteng, after disappearing on March 1.The two had apparently gone to a Cape Town beach after school on March 1 and "decided it was time to tour the country", Plato's father Deon told Netwerk24.The friends then caught a bus to Bloemfontein and another to Johannesburg. Reportedly realising they were lost, they went to a petrol station and asked for police to be called. Plato was then contacted.Chandre Snyman, 16, was also found on Tuesday, in Paarl. She had gone missing on February 27 and was last seen at Labori High School wearing her uniform of a blue blazer and skirt. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.