Get the latest updates as Zimbabwe s opposition parties protest in the capital Harare over what they consider to be actions aimed at rigging next year s presidential elections. Jump to bottom #Zimbabwe riot police following behind protesters ..... Harare. Opposition meeting has ended, people going home pic.twitter.com/keukpDkswWOpposition supporters trudge back home under police watch. Water canons and trucks follow the crowd as it makes its way to CBD. Police are on guard in street corners, ready to bounce on any protesters or trouble makers.#Zimbabwe Freedom Square protest #Harare opposition leaders 2getha Morgan Tsvangirai, Tendai Biti, Didymus Mutasa pic.twitter.com/YVFdq1sQGF#Zimbabwe Freedom Square #Harare Morgan Tsvangirai, MDC-T leader arrives pic.twitter.com/ljDWBLyVNk#Zimbabwe Freedom Square #Harare Pastor Evan at the opposition protest pic.twitter.com/cOvrwO5uGKMugabe to die this year pastor Phillip Patrick Mugadza giving opening prayer.&nbsp;He says if the country is led by righteous people, Zimbabweans will be happy.#Zimbabwe 12:35pm Freedom Square #Harare ..... pic.twitter.com/RcIk23BgXo#Zimbabwe Freedom Square #Harare 12:30pm .... protesters singing. pic.twitter.com/n3zUJLbrSo#Zimbabwe Freedom Square #Harare 12:29pm ..... protesters singing, waiting to be addressed by organisers pic.twitter.com/Sp1RDfICTHAs protesters await official address from Nera officials, two police grey water canons and a grey Puma truck laden with riot police are cycling the venue.People continue to trickle in.Four plainclothes police have just accosted freelance journalist Garikai Chaunza who is broadcasting live from the venue.It has taken the intervention of a member of the Zimbabwe National Editors Forum to let him do his job after producing his accreditation card.#Zimbabwe 11:42am Freedom Square #Harare ... organisers setting up so opposition leaders can address protesters pic.twitter.com/j4lZMuTYoiOfficial proceedings are yet to start.Political activist Vivid Gwede says: "The protest gathering by NERA is an important step towards revealing the problems be-devilling the running of elections in Zimbabwe."As the government moves towards the biometric voter registration system there is need for all stakeholders including opposition parties to be satisfied with the transparency situation."MDC Youth Secretary General Lovemore Chinoputsa says: "We are sending a clear message that we will not budge on our demands for a free and fair electoral process that will solve the political question of the day."&nbsp; &nbsp; The protesters have been given restrictions by the police not to exceed 2 500 people #NERAdemo @KalabashMedia @NeraZimbabwe @ThisFlag1980Political analyst and activist with a leading human rights organisation Rawlings Magade tellas News24 that at law, there is no need for a demonstration.He says at law the state "should be in charge of the procurement process... energy should be directed to parliament to debate of the procurement as well as for requisite electoral reforms demanded by the opposition parties".Magade says this, as the crowd awaits court ruling.#NeraDemo update : Small crowd at #ZimFreedomSquare pic.twitter.com/5GLESh938D Jump to top