Jeanette Chabalala, News24Richard Mdluli (Ahmed Areff, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; A former police officer was forced to write an affidavit implicating former intelligent boss Richard Mdluli in the killing of his former wife's lover, Oupa Ramogibe, the Johannesburg High Court heard on Thursday."I was approached by four officers. They wanted me to say the general bought people to kill someone," the defence's last witness, retired investing officer David Makamu, told the court.The 59-year-old was testifying in the trial of Mdluli and his co-accused Mthembeni Mthunzi.Mdluli and his co-accused face charges of intimidation, kidnapping, assault with the intent to commit grievous bodily harm and defeating the ends of justice. &nbsp;They allegedly intimidated, kidnapped and assaulted Ramogibe. They have pleaded not guilty.Makamu said the officers who approached him promised him a promotion and a transfer to Cape Town."They introduced themselves as police officers from Cape Town," Makamu said. However prosecutor Deon Barnard challenged this."I put it to you that it is not true. There was one person who approached you, not four," he said. The officers were apparently Hawks members. &nbsp;'He told me my son is going to die'Makamu said he was approached by four police officers who wanted him to write the statement. "What I am testifying here is the truth," Makamu said.He also said his superior asked him to go to Ramogibe's house and take statements."He [his superior] gave me the address and I went and took statements."He read out the statement which he took from Ramogibe's father, Michael, who said he suspected Mdluli had been involved in the killing of his son. &nbsp;"He even told me that my son is going to die," Michael Motloung said in the statement produced by the State. &nbsp;Ramogibe was shot dead on February 17&sbquo; 1999, in the company of police. He went with them to point out where he had been shot weeks before.Ramogibe had had an affair with Mdluli's customary wife&sbquo; Tshidi Buthelezi. No one was ever convicted of Ramogibe's murder. Mdluli has been accused of sabotaging the investigation.Mdluli had a long-term relationship with Buthelezi dating from his school days. During her relationship with him, she met Ramogibe and they began a relationship. They secretly married on July 22, 1998.New witnessesBetween 1997 and 1999, Mdluli allegedly went to extreme lengths to track down Buthelezi and Ramogibe. Mdluli and Mthunzi allegedly intimidated, kidnapped and assaulted Ramogibe. He was shot dead in 1999.On Thursday Mdluli's lawyer Ike Motloung asked the court to accept an application to bring in two more police witnesses.This after he concluded the defence's case. The witnesses were the first to take statements in the Mdluli matter.The State opposed the request on the grounds that a proper basis had not established to justify calling in new people. Judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng disagreed and granted the application to call in the witnesses.He said the court would cross-examine the two witnesses. The defence and State would be given an opportunity to also cross-examine the witnesses. &nbsp;The case continues on Friday. &nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.