News24 Correspondent Pastor Patrick Mugadza (File: News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - A pastor who's just spent six weeks in jail for predicting Robert Mugabe's death says he collected a tin of lice to show the Zimbabwe
president just how bad prison life is, according to a newspaper. The Daily News quotes Patrick Mugadza (his other name is
Phillip) from Kariba saying: "I had collected lice because I wanted to
bring them over just to say Mr President these are your boys in the prison who
are just eating people." He, however, said he he'd lost his tin of lice. Mugadza was arrested in January 2017 for saying Mugabe would
die on October 17 this year. The #ThisFlag movement of well-known Zimbabwe pastor Evan
Mawarire took up Mugadza's cause while he was in prison, calling for his
release. Mawarire himself spent a week in custody in February. Mugadza first came to public notice for holding a one-man
protest against the longtime Zimbabwe leader outside a ruling party conference
in Victoria Falls in December 2015. He told the Daily News that his recent
experience in prison was "nasty" and that he'd seen guards beating
inmates. Dissatisfaction is rife in Zimbabwe, where the president has
just gone on his fourth foreign trip in 19 days. Floods last month caused
widespread damage in the south of hte country, where 100 million US is believed
to be needed for road repairs alone. Many are are conscious that elections will be held next year
and that Mugabe - for the moment at least - says he will stand again. There are
moves from the ruling party to stop biometric voter registration, which the
opposition was largely in favour of. Opposition parties under the banner of the National
Electoral Reform Agenda (NERA) say they will hold a protest in Harare on
Wednesday to press for electoral reforms. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  