Sabelo Nsele, The WitnessANC Youth League members have threatened to shut down all Absa branches in the province until the bank pays back the money it received as bailout from the apartheid government. Members of the league picketed at the bank s Church Street branch on Wednesday. (Sabelo Nsele) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The ANC Youth League in the province has threatened to intensify its campaign against Absa should the bank not meet its demands.The league vowed to shut down all Absa branches until the bank pays back the money it received as a bailout from the apartheid government.The league picketed outside an Absa branch in Church Street on Wednesday, stalling the bank&rsquo;s daily functions as they blocked the entrance.Provincial secretary Thanduxolo Sabelo encouraged the league&rsquo;s members to interrupt operations at Absa until the bank pays back the R2,25 billion as recommended in a leaked public protector draft report.&ldquo;The youth league has over 86 000 members in the province. I am talking about only those that have membership, I am not speaking about the supporters.&ldquo;If Absa does not pay back this money, we will divide ourselves into groups and close all the regional offices. This money must be brought back to the economy to create jobs. We must continue to frustrate Absa.&rdquo; Sabelo said the league had closed all its account with Absa and has mandated all the regions to shut their accounts and join Ithala bank.He called on President Jacob Zuma to appoint a commission of inquiry into banks operating in SA.&ldquo;More dirt will come out.&rdquo; The league refused to speak to regional managers sent to accept the memorandum.&ldquo;We are not going to speak to these security guards. We want to speak to the owners of Absa so that we can tell them the plight of our people.&rdquo;Regional secretary Thembinkosi Zondi said they had chosen to picket yesterday because the 15th is a busy day for the bank. &ldquo;Most of the government employees get paid on this day. It is a busy day for Absa.&rdquo;The protest lasted for about two hours with the doors closed at the bank and customers being turned away.In a statement, Absa denied any wrongdoing and said it has worked openly with the public protector&rsquo;s office on the investigation.The bank said it will make further comments once the public protector has finished her investigation and published her report.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.