iStock Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A two-year-old boy has been in hospital in the southern Zimbabwe city of Bulawayo for two months after his mother cut off his penis, a report says. News24 Correspondent Harare - So why is Zimbabwe's cow the only one with a naked udder?Zimbabweans have been hotly debating - without losing their wry sense of humour -- why "their cow" is depicted on the ad of a popular money transfer agency with no clothes on.The UK-based Mukuru.com's&nbsp;distinctive adverts use a cow to represent each southern African country it operates in. But the cows of Malawi, Botswana, Zambia, Lesotho and Mozambique are all wearing clothes. Zimbabwe's cow carries the national flag but is otherwise naked. Her generous udder is also visible.Popular Zimbabwean social media guru Mike Tashaya posted to Facebook Monday: "This banner started a fascinating discussion in a whatsapp group I'm part of. The portrayal of Zimbabwe is very intriguing indeed."See the post below.Locals debated hotly. Was it, one asked, because what passes in Zimbabwe for a national dress is really the regalia used by the ruling Zanu-PF party?Another Facebook user suggested that actually, the naked cow "represents the current state of affairs in our country..where Zim used to be so full if life, with a robust economy and all, now it's just a bare land stripped of its dignity and wealth."Mukuru.com has already responded on Twitter, where the debate raged last week: "@bayhaus.Thank you for bringing this to our attention, the reason the cow is undressed is because in Zimbabwe we do not have a national dr,.." The national dress issue doesn't appear to have been successfully resolved in Zimbabwe as a quick Google search shows. A proposed national dress was launched in Bulawayo in 2012, the privately-owned Newsday reported then.But it doesn't look as if it was formally adopted, since in March 2015 the Herald newspaper reported that the education, sports and culture ministry had unveiled the fabric for the national dress.&nbsp;A month later, in April 2015, the B-Metro tabloid was still asking: "Where is the national dress?".&nbsp;For now, Zimbabwe's cow looks a little chillier than the rest.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.