Iavan Pijoos, News249 year old Dario Gouveia has collected over 2000 pairs of shoes for the poor and needy. His initiative is called Sole2Sole. (Iavan Pijoos, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; He is just a normal nine-year-old who loves sport, but has touched the hearts of thousands with his shoe collection initiative. Dario Gouveia says all he has ever wanted to do was to help the needy and poor.He has collected 2 562 pairs of shoes, far exceeding his target of 1 000 pairs.His Sole2Sole initiative started with a homeless child on a street."One day we stopped at a robot. I looked out of the window and saw a little boy, a little younger than me, sitting on the hot tar while his mother begged for money."What worried him was that the boy was kicking stones with his bare feet."This made me think how many children out there need shoes." &nbsp; Tremendous support"I thought back to the amount of shoes I have in my cupboard that my mom keeps saying are too small for me." When they got home, Dario and his sister went through his cupboard and took out 14 pairs of old shoes.His mother, Zita Gouveia, says he was adamant that they return to the traffic lights and give the shoes to the child. "I said to him that he needs to write a letter to his friends and see how many shoes he can collect for the needy. He wrote the initiative letter and posted it on social media and it skyrocketed. I can&rsquo;t believe the generosity of some of the people," Gouveia says.They have received tremendous support from schools."We have been everywhere. We have been to squatter camps, to children&rsquo;s homes and to schools all over to deliver shoes to the needy," she says.WATCH:&nbsp; "It has been such an emotional rollercoaster. I cry a lot. He has been doing a lot of talks at schools lately and he speaks better from the heart than from a piece of paper," the mother of two says. On Tuesday, a school at which Dario spoke collected 700 pairs of shoes."We were never expecting that, I couldn&rsquo;t believe it. I looked at him, turned around and just started crying. I cried my eyes out."Dario has urged South Africans to continue giving to the initiative."Please don&rsquo;t stop donating, it has really been amazing. The poor people out there really need shoes, because winter is around the corner," Dario says.He dreams of becoming a Proteas cricket player, and he is a huge fan of AB de Villiers.- To donate, contact the initiative on Facebook or on email:&nbsp;zgouveia@starpack.co.za 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.