Monica Laganparsad, News24Radovan Krejcir's previous house is again on sale. (Pam Golding Properties) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The Hawks raided Czech fugitive Radovan Krejcir's upmarket Bedfordview house, in the east of Johannesburg, but Krejcir was not home. A hit list found in Krejcir's house included the names of slain underworld boss Cyril Beeka, security consultant Paul O'Sullivan and a state prosecutor.WATCHJohannesburg - If you've ever wanted to live like a Czech mob boss, with magnificent views of the city skyline and a quick escape route to the airport, there's a mansion on the hill offering the full Krejcir experience.The four-bedroom house in Bedfordview, east of Johannesburg, where the infamous Eastern European fugitive Radovan Krejcir lived, is on sale.It comes with a hefty price tag of R15.5m just two years after it was reportedly bought by his arch-nemesis, private eye Paul O'Sullivan, in a private auction.The house, which is being sold for reasons unknown, is on the books of Pam Golding Properties.Sitting on a hill, the four-storey 2 285m&sup2; property was bought by Krejcir in 2008 for R13m, according to the Sunday Times. According to the listing, the property offers "magnificent views of the city skyline in Upper Bedfordview".No expense sparedKrejcir, who has now swapped his multimillion rand mansion for a jail cell, had pimped out his luxurious crib with a lift and lavish finishes.In the main bedroom he spared no expense and kitted the room out with large "his and hers" dressing rooms which flow into a plush bathroom.Two of the guest bedrooms boast "projectors" for screenings of Scarface and The Godfather while the entertainment area offers the perfect setting for the baddest pool parties.The large entertainment patio with stack doors opens onto a deck with a swimming pool and a jacuzzi. When the home went under the hammer in 2015, the identity of the buyer was a mystery but in 2016 EWN revealed that O'Sullivan had bought the house. He played an active role in Krejcir's arrest.Krejcir won't be laying claim to his house any time soon. He was sentenced to 35 years for a litany of criminal charges which include murder, drug dealing and torture. Krejcir is facing additional charges including one for the attempted murder of O'Sullivan. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.