AFP Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cairo - Ousted Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak, toppled in a 2011 revolt then jailed, was freed on Friday in a country still coming to terms with the consequences of the uprising that ended his 30-year rule.Here is a list of important events starting with the uprising.2011: Revolution, trial&nbsp;January 25: Thousands of Egyptians, inspired by the Tunisian revolt that toppled dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, protest in Cairo and elsewhere in Egypt demanding Mubarak's overthrow. Police disperse them. January 28: Protesters across the country clash with police as the government cuts mobile and internet networks. Demonstrators attack police stations and force security personnel to withdraw from the streets. Mubarak responds by sacking his cabinet and deploying the army.February 11: After days of non-stop protests centred in Cairo's Tahrir Square, Mubarak's newly appointed vice president Omar Suleiman announces in a televised address that the president has resigned and the army is in charge.August 3: Mubarak goes on trial for involvement in the killing of protesters during the revolt, and corruption. He is later sentenced to life in jail but an appeals court eventually exonerates him.November 28: The first phase of Egypt's parliamentary elections, which last till January, begins. Islamist parties win a majority of seats. The military rulers dissolve parliament the following June.&nbsp;2012: Morsi elected&nbsp;June 30: Mohamed Morsi, a senior Muslim Brotherhood leader, defeats Mubarak's last prime minister Ahmed Shafiq with 51.7 percent of the vote to become Egypt's first civilian democratically elected president.In August, following a massacre of troops in Sinai by jihadists and a protest against Morsi at their funeral, Morsi dismisses military chief Field Marshal Hussein Tantawi and replaces him with General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi in a purge of top army brass.2013: Army takes control&nbsp;July 3: Following massive protests against his divisive rule, the military led by Sisi overthrows Morsi and detains him. Morsi is later placed on trial.August 14: Police disperse two pro-Morsi protest camps in Cairo, killing about 700 people in clashes within hours. Islamists attack Christian properties, accusing the minority of supporting Morsi's overthrow. 2014: President Sisi&nbsp;June 8: Sisi is elected president with 96.9% of the vote, easily defeating his sole opponent, socialist Hamdeen Sabbahi.November: Jihadists in the Sinai Peninsula who have killed scores of policemen and soldiers in attacks announce that they have joined the Islamic State group (ISIS) as its Egypt franchise.2015: Sinai air disaster&nbsp;October 31: A Russian airliner carrying tourists from an Egyptian beach resort explodes after taking off, killing all 224 people on board. ISIS says it had planted a bomb on the plane.&nbsp;2016: New parliament&nbsp;January 10: A new parliament, composed mainly of Sisi backers, holds its inaugural session.&nbsp;2017: Mubarak freed&nbsp;March 24: Mubarak, acquitted of involvement in killing protesters and having served a three-year corruption sentence, goes free from the military hospital where he was detained.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.