iStock (iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A Zimbabwean court has ruled against First Lady Grace Mugabe s move to seize yet another farm, as she seeks to expand her empire in the prime farming area of Mazowe.News24 Correspondent Harare - They're calling him Zimbabwe's Steve Irwin - and his fans on social media just can't get enough of him.Passionate about wildlife since he was a boy, Chawatama Marimo, 43, is frequently called upon to capture "problem" snakes in and around Harare.&nbsp;Python in Harare's plush Borrowdale suburb? Cobra in the British embassy's garden? Snake trapped in a pipe that turns out NOT to be a harmless brown house snake but a very venomous snouted cobra? Chawa's your man.In one watch-if-you-dare clip posted to his "Chawa's Wild Adventures" Facebook page, he waits behind a rock and then grabs a python from the dead leaves on the ground."Remember we are the intruders and not them. They [the snakes] were there first," he tells his fans. He imparts snippets of information as he goes along: snakes, like humans and animals, can get bitten by ticks, he says in his post."My goal is to educate my fellow brothers and sisters because I believe nothing was made by accident and everything exists for a purpose," Marimo told local tabloid B-Metro this week.&nbsp;In the interview he said that he'd been interested in wildlife and trees ever since he was a boy and caught his first cobra at the age of 19. But he only really developed his expertise when he moved into the bush near Mazowe to start a career in mining and started reading up on snakes.Has he ever been bitten? Does his wife worry? Yes to both questions - though he's obviously survived.&nbsp;And what about that bag he puts the snakes in? Can snakes bite through it?Yes again, says Marimo on Facebook."Golden rule is never touch the bag... It's a specially designed bag and you know which areas not to put your hands on."&nbsp;Watch Chawatama Marimo's videos below24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.