Thabang Mathebula, The WitnessStrauss & Co general manager Susie Goodman and fine art specialist Alastair Meredith holding the Anton van Wouw sculpture discovered during their Pietermaritzburg evaluation day held on Wednesday. (Ian Carbut) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A bronze sculpture by famous South African artist Anton van Wouw, which has been owned by three generations of a Pietermaritzburg family, is finally going to be auctioned. Anton van Wouw&rsquo;s sculpture, believed to have been cast in Rome in the early 20th century, was part of a Strauss &amp; Co art evaluation day that was held in Pietermaritzburg on Wednesday.The sculpture&rsquo;s value is estimated to be between R350 000 and R500 000, and it is expected to be one of the main items to be auctioned at Strauss &amp; Co&rsquo;s Johannesburg auction in June. According to the family, who chose to remain anonymous, the sculpture had been passed on through three generations, from son to son. &ldquo;My husband passed it to my son, and he approved that we finally let go of it,&rdquo; a family member said.Amazed by the discovery of the art work of one his favourite artists, Strauss &amp; Co fine art specialist Alastair Meredith said the sculptor&rsquo;s work is highly sought after in art circles.&ldquo;What is the most remarkable thing about the sculpture is that it was sculpted in Rome. It is absolutely the most sought-after art work of Van Wouw&rsquo;s. It is a very exciting find,&rdquo; Meredith said.About Anton van WouwAnton van Wouw was born on December 27, 1862 in Driebergen, Netherlands, and died July 30, 1945 in Pretoria. He moved to Pretoria at the age of 28 and waited for 10 years to receive his first commission. This was from financier Sammy Marks to create a statue of Paul Kruger, which stands on Church Square in Pretoria to this day.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.