Johannesburg - Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini said on Sunday that "fraud and corruption is well documented in cash transfer systems throughout the world and South Africa is no different", adding that grants will be paid on April 1.Dlamini was briefing the media on the Sassa debacle that has left countless grant beneficiaries fearing they won't be paid out, as Sassa's controversial&nbsp;payment contract with Cash Payment Services (CPS)&nbsp;expires at the end of March 2017."Our system has seen the worst form of abuse and theft," she said. "In &nbsp;December 2014 a ministerial advisory committee report recommended that Sassa build its own payment system. Towards the end of 2014 Sassa advertised the tender as per the court order for the payment of social grants for five years, ending 2019. However, the tender was not awarded due to non-responsive bids.""At the time, five companies bidded for the tender, two withdrew... the three that remained did not have the capacity to deal with the issues we had raised."News24's Mpho Raborife tweeted live from the event. Follow her tweets here.&nbsp;#Sassa Dlamini says Treasury was invited to negotiations, but opted not to join in. @News24#Sassa Says she didn't join the ANC to be minister, and if President wants to, he can remove her from her duties. @News24#Sassa We will continue paying social grants beyond March 31 and on April 1, Dlamini says and repeats. @News24#Sassa after seeking legal opinion, they also embarked on stakeholder engagements incl Sassa, DSD, SARB &amp; National Treasury @News24&mdash; Mpho Raborife (@MsRaborife) March 5, 2017#Sassa after seeking legal opinion, they also embarked on stakeholder engagements incl Sassa, DSD, SARB &amp; National Treasury @News24Earlier on Saturday the DA and Congress of the People on Saturday both called for Dlamini to be sacked immediately following the sudden resignation of her director general Zane Dangor.The presidency on Saturday&nbsp;also issued a statement saying that President Jacob Zuma met with Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and Dlamini to discuss the matter. Zuma received a progress report on the debacle. "Today's meeting follows other briefings that the president has received on the matter. The president is of the view that the matters are solvable," the presidency had said.Watch the briefing live.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.