News24 Correspondent President Robert Mugabe. (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - Was it enough or wasn't it? President Robert Mugabe's
donation of biscuits, Zapnax (the local equivalent of Niknaks) and water
to some of the victims of floods in southern Zimbabwe has been coming under
intense scrutiny. According to a Twitter post by
Jonathan Moyo, Zimbabwe's higher education minister who's also the MP for
Tsholotsho where many of the displaced come from, Mugabe sent 1 000  packs
of Zapnax, 1 000 bottles of mineral water and 1 000 packs of biscuits. There were many other
donations, including from schools, a safari company, a church and aid groups. Floods hit parts of southern
Zimbabwe shortly after tropical storm Dineo pummelled the region. At least 900
people are still living in a camp for the displaced in Tsholotsho district.
Across Zimbabwe, 2 000 people were displaced. While there's no doubt that
water and foodstuffs (non-perishable foodstuffs at that) are desperately needed
by those currently living in tents, a number of Zimbabweans still view Mugabe's
donation in a poor light. 'Extreme bad taste' "We are doomed,"
tweeted @MakomboreroH, the secretary general of the Zimbabwe National Students'
Union in response to the report of Mugabe's gift. Obert Gutu, the spokesperson for
the main opposition Movement for Democratic Change told the privately-run Daily
News that Mugabe's donation was in "extreme bad taste". "It's arrogance of the
highest order for him to send the victims donated biscuits, Zapnaxs and bottled
mineral water. This shows Mugabe’s utter contempt for
the toiling masses of Zimbabwe," the paper quoted Gutu as saying. On Twitter, Home Affairs
Minister Saviour Kasukuwere welcomed all the donations and the feedback from
Moyo (who himself donated groceries to the displaced). He tweeted: "We
will work to build back better." There is just one thing to note
though: Mugabe (who recently had to have a plane chartered for him from
Bahrain) may not necessarily choose to eat Zapnax, which are produced in
Harare. The president was snapped
snacking on imported Lays crisps during his 93rd birthday party last month. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  