Jeanette Chabalala, News24Richard Mdluli. (Ahmed Areff, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; The case against former crime intelligence boss Richard Mdluli and his co-accused for allegedly intimidating, kidnapping and assaulting Oupa Ramogibe was postponed in the Johannesburg High Court on Friday.The case was postponed because two witnesses were not in Gauteng.Mdluli's lawyer Ike Motloung asked the court on Thursday to accept an application to bring in two more police witnesses, even though the defence's case had already been concluded.Prosecutor Zaais van Zyl told the court on Friday that the two witnesses were not in Gauteng.&nbsp; The witnesses were the first to make statements in the Mdluli matter.&nbsp;The State had opposed the request to bring in two more witnesses on the grounds that a proper basis had not been established to justify the move.Officer 'forced to implicate Mdluli'However, Judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng disagreed and granted the application to call the witnesses.He said the court would cross-examine the pair. The defence and State would also be given an opportunity to cross-examine them.&nbsp; A former police officer testified that he had been forced to write an affidavit implicating Mdluli in the killing of Ramogibe, Mdluli's former partner's lover."I was approached by four officers. They wanted me to say the general bought people to kill someone," the defence's last witness, retired investigating officer David Makamu, 59, told the court.Mdluli and his co-accused Mthembeni Mthunzi face charges of intimidation, kidnapping, assault with the intent to commit grievous bodily harm and defeating the ends of justice. They have all pleaded not guilty.Cop's testimony challengedMakamu said the officers who approached him promised him a promotion and a transfer to Cape Town."They introduced themselves as police officers from Cape Town," Makamu said. However, prosecutor Deon Barnard challenged this."I put it to you that it is not true. There was one person who approached you, not four," he said. The officers were apparently Hawks members.Makamu insisted that he was approached by four police officers who wanted him to write the statement. "What I am testifying here is the truth," Makamu said.He also said his superior had asked him to go to Ramogibe's house and take statements."He [the superior] gave me the address and I went and took statements."Investigation allegedly sabotagedHe read out the statement which he took from Ramogibe's father, Michael Motloung, who said he suspected Mdluli had been involved in the killing of his son."He even told me that my son is going to die," Michael said in the statement produced by the State.Ramogibe was shot dead on February 17 1999, in the company of police. He went with them to point out where he had been shot weeks before.Ramogibe had had an affair with Mdluli's customary wife&sbquo; Tshidi Buthelezi. No one was ever convicted of Ramogibe's murder. Mdluli has been accused of sabotaging the investigation.Mdluli had a long-term relationship with Buthelezi, dating from his school days. During her relationship with him, she met Ramogibe and they began a relationship. They secretly married on July 22 1998.Between 1997 and 1999, Mdluli allegedly went to extreme lengths to track down Buthelezi and Ramogibe.&nbsp;The case is expected to continue on Monday. &nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.