Lizeka Tandwa, News24Johannesburg - Anyone travelling to OR Tambo International Airport on Friday morning to catch a flight will find themselves in a major traffic jam as roads have been blocked by a metered taxi strike.- Are you affected?&nbsp;Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos."If you are hoping of catching an early flight, you might be in trouble. I doubt anyone will make it now," EMPD spokesperson Lieutenant Kobeli Mokheseng told News24 on Friday morning.- Traveller24: What to do if you are going to miss your flightIn the early hours of the morning, metered taxis blocked the R24 freeway heading east between Edenvale and Barbara Road Off ramp. A little before 07:00, Mokheseng said about 60 metered taxi were also seen blocking the left lane of the Olifantsfontein off-ramp heading north in Tembisa.Motorists are advised to add at least an hour to their driving time.Other roads affected include the R21 south, opposite OR Tambo airport."EMPD is working towards opening road for free flow of traffic. At this point traffic is at a standstill," he said.Mokheseng added that Gauteng police are working at resolving the matter with taxi drivers."It&rsquo;s not clear what their conflict is. As you know, the Gauteng police have a unit called the taxi conflict unit. Police and other units are working towards a resolution." Passengers are advised to arrive early for flights as high passenger numbers and a metered taxi protest on the R24 is being experienced.JHB - R24 East: Metered Taxi Driver Protest: RT @eloosif Situation at Barbara Road right now @TrafficSA @ortambo_int pic.twitter.com/DQ2686GkpCGP metered taxi drivers have taken to the streets in protest barricading the R24 highway outside OR Tambo international airport #TaxiStrikeALERT: If you're heading to @ortambo_int -metered taxi strike, in protest against @Uber_RSA blocking the R24 - avoid Gillooly's Interchange.JHB - R21 South: Metered Taxi Driver Protest: between Olifantsfontein Road and the Airport - use alternative routes and allow +++ xtra time pic.twitter.com/0p46mc1tQA#AATrafficJHB Kempton Park METERED TAXI DRIVER PROTEST on the Highway near the Pomona Road exit - HEAVY TRAFFIC POMONA ROAD - SouthboundIf going to OR take alternate route or Gautrain as R24 a mess due to metered taxi protest against Uber chaps. Want us to pay extortionatePassengers are advised to arrive early for flights as high passenger numbers and a metered taxi protest on the R24 is being experienced.Stuck towards the or tambo pic.twitter.com/goTRr2wQ9mThese meter taxi okes have some serious nerve. They ripped people off for years now they wanna protest Uber that brought people relief?Back in 2009 they used to charge R450 from OR Tambo to Paulshof. Just a week ago I paid R258 on uber.JHB - #AVOID: R24 Highway (Update), Metered Taxi Driver Protest: @ortambo_int pic.twitter.com/S259zt2Cvf#ATT #AVOID Metered taxi drivers having their own go slow protest on the N3 south and R24 towards airport. Expect heavy delays.Barbara Rd interchange. If you're heading to @ortambo_int today, you're screwed. pic.twitter.com/lbESlYTG0tMETERED TAXIS BLOCKED R21JUST BEFORE OR TAMBO AIRPORT "UBER MUST FALL" PROTEST. pic.twitter.com/5TUZmguTPVHope there aren't bags of money awile lapho. RT @Akhona_Mfaba: Traffic congestion on R24 towards OR Tambo Airport, zikhiphani?My morning on the R21 towards OR Tambo airport, been here since 5:12 am #metertaxis strike pic.twitter.com/6Kz9WAJTiz24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.