President Jacob Zuma. (GCIS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  In
politics, there are two types of power a political leader in power cannot do
without. The first is a set of formal, rule-book powers bestowed upon a leader
by the institution he leads. Let’s call it institutional power. For example,
according to the Constitution, the president of South Africa has the power to
appoint and fire Cabinet ministers without explanation. The second
is soft power, the ability to persuade, secure voluntary following and command
respect. This is not scripted in the Constitution. The possession of soft power
is displayed through high ethical conduct, itself a reflection of a leader’s
innate character. Leaders who
deploy soft power are those who have a huge stock of what the political
scientist John Kane calls “moral capital” –public moral judgements that inspire
trust, belief and allegiance. Institutional
power and soft power complement each other. A leader who intelligently uses
both types is likely to be more effective. The opposite is true of a leader who
relies on one type of power. If it
hasn’t totally run dry, Zuma’s soft power has now reached the water levels of
dams in the Western Cape. The big difference, though, is that at some point the
dams will fill up. In his
book, The Myth of a Strong Leader:
Political Leadership in the Modern Age, Archie Brown writes: “Institutional
power adds enormously to the potential impact of a leader. Yet it is worth
keeping in mind that having your hands on levers of power is not the same as
leadership in its purest form.” While his institutional
powers remain intact, Zuma has struggled to convince South Africans that his
use of such power is in the national interest. People do not trust him. He is
impossible to trust. The failure
to secure support from key stakeholders within and outside the tripartite alliance
on his decision to axe Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi
Jonas, illustrates that outside the institution of the Presidency, Zuma is
nearly finished. Zuma has
relied exclusively on his institutional powers to fire Gordhan and Jonas. The
depletion of his soft power was not orchestrated by foreign “checkmate” agents
or some other fictitious characters. It was engineered by Zuma, the moral
hazard himself, in a series of blunders that include abuse of state power,
corruption, failure to learn from previous mistakes and unbreakable association
with foreigners whose mission is to divide the nation and loot its limited
resources. Zuma and
his coterie of backers correctly invoke the Constitution to remind us of his
prerogative to hire and fire ministers. But it sounds hypocritical to invoke a
prerogative enabled by a Constitution which he failed to uphold and defend. Soon after
the Constitutional Court made the finding in the Nkandla matter, Zuma’s soft
power, already limited by the hundreds of unresolved corruption charges and
personal scandals, nosedived further. In Cabinet, he cannot use the
Constitution he broke as yardstick to measure performance of ministers. So, his
measurement of performance is the rate at which each minister nods at
everything he says. But the truth is, honest government officials
see in him first and foremost the chief violator of the Constitution. Since no
minister, including the most underperforming, have been found to have violated
the Constitution, Zuma is the worst underperforming member of his Cabinet. Faced
with an unresolvable inability to provide leadership, he focuses his attention
on plotting his personal survival using institutional power. If there
was one good reason why Zuma should have been impeached after Nkandla, it is
that he can no longer inspire Cabinet members, individually or collectively, to
fulfill the highest constitutional obligations: to respect the Constitution and
other laws of the Republic. He ceased to be the standard bearer of the Constitution or, in the words of the Constitutional Court, the “constitutional
being”. Zuma’s association
with the Guptas has chipped away his soft power. The fact that some of his
ministers had been to Saxonwold to get Gupta blessings and take instructions
makes it impossible for them to respect him. Those who have not been to
Saxonwold but know of others whose names were approved there don’t hold him in
high regard because he has compromised the Republic’s executive authority. Some of
them know that allowing the Guptas to have a say on Cabinet appointments or
influencing Cabinet decisions is a constitutional violation. With this in mind,
no amount of corruption on their part, no amount of theft they can facilitate and
no amount of bending of the rules they can fast-track, matches a constitutional
violation. So, he has no moral high-ground to call them to order. His only
instrument is to reshuffle Cabinet regularly to force compliance. This is not
leadership. As
ministers, collectively and individually, they think of themselves as far much
better than their president. Those who have not committed transgressions, have
no links with corrupt elements, see themselves as towering above Zuma. He is,
in their minds, a dwarf. This explains why they saw it as a moral imperative to
ask the ANC’s National Executive Committee to recall him. Under such
circumstances, it is a privilege and an honour to be fired by Zuma rather than to
serve under him. Such is the extent to which he has brought the institution
of the executive into disrepute. His lack of moral standing and diminished soft
power explains why Gordhan and Jonas, notwithstanding their knowledge that Zuma
didn’t want them, would not resign. Zuma has
encouraged the violation of Cabinet protocols. The release of an unauthorised Cabinet statement suggesting an imminent inquiry into the conduct of banks in
relation to the closure of Gupta accounts should have been followed by an
immediate dismissal of Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane. Zuma failed
to act. Zuma also
failed to act against the Nkandla ministers. He was obviously conflicted:
Nkandla benefited him personally and the bank inquiry would have been used to
force banks to violate the law and open bank accounts for the Guptas. This
conflict of interests deprives Zuma of the moral capital necessary for the
exercise of soft power. Zuma has
not taken action against Social Development Minister Development Minister
Bathabile Dlamini who was found wanting by the Constitutional Court on her
failure to implement the court’s previous ruling on social grants. Instead, he
affirmed her. He has
allowed Nathi Nhleko to waste taxpayers’ money pursuing an unwinnable court
cases to appoint a person lacking in integrity as head of the Hawks. In the
latest reshuffle, Nhleko was promoted to a department that manages government’s
multi-billion rand portfolio of physical asserts. Zuma has
not taken any steps against Minister Faith Muthambi whose competency was
questioned by the National Assembly. Even worse, Muthambi wants to go to the
courts to set aside the findings of the National Assembly. In the latest
reshuffle, she was promoted to lead the engine of government – the civil service
required by the constitution to display the highest professional and ethical
conduct. Zuma has sown
distrust and divisions in his Cabinet. There are those who consider themselves
loyal to ANC principles and the Constitution. And there is, of course, the
Saxonwold Club that he would like to expand. In the latest reshuffle, he has
strengthened the Saxonwold Club. Malusi Gigaba, the new minister of finance,
had close ties with the Guptas when he headed the public enterprises portfolio.
Given their interests in Transnet, Eskom and Denel, we know why they got close
to him. The big
challenge for all South Africans is to assist in whatever way they can to push
back and minimise the harm that Zuma’s abuse of institutional power is causing
to the country until he leaves office. - Mpumelelo Mkhabela is a fellow at the Centre for the Study of Governance Innovation (GovInn) at the University of Pretoria.Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   