Ashleigh FurlongSome of the group of 144 dismissed workers protest outside the University of the Western Cape on Tuesday. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Dismissed security guards from the University of the Western Cape (UWC) demonstrated outside the university on Tuesday, calling for their employer, Securitas to reinstate them. The 144 workers were dismissed following the student protests last year.One of them, Sithembele Falteni said that he had worked at the university for six years, and has been without a job since October 2016.His wife is unemployed. He said the family had struggled to pay for school registration, uniforms and books for his six-year-old. We didn t enjoy Christmas. We were just looking at other people having fun, he said.On 13 January, Securitas dismissed the workers on charges of being absent from work without permission, hostage taking and assault and robbery . The workers admit that they weren t at work but say they were forced to leave as students had shutdown the university. On 17 October, we were at work when the students came and removed us, said Vusumzi Gononda. He said the protesting students shut down the campus and told everyone to leave. And then they informed our line manager that we were not going to work, he said.When they returned once the shutdown was over, Securitas tried to interdict them, he said, but the court denied the urgent interdict.Mark Sangster, the director of corporate governance at Securitas, said that they have video footage of both the assault and hostage (takers) holding managers against their free will and were therefore able to identify the staff who were implicated . Staff absented themselves from the university during a period of student protest this without our (the employer) permission. We requested them to return to work and also offered to redeploy them to another site if necessary. They did not return to work, nor did they respond to our offer of redeployment, so we believed that we had no alternative but to proceed with the charges of absenteeism, he said.Gononda denied that the workers took anyone hostage, saying that the incident referred to was when the workers were demanding answers from management. He confirmed Sangster s offer of redeployment but said workers didn t want to accept this because they would lose the R2,000 top-up payment that UWC management was giving all outsourced workers, and would not receive a study rebate.He said that during the hostage incident there were student and police on the campus.Like Falteni, Gononda has also been unemployed since they were dismissed. I m still suffering, he said, explaining that his two brothers were unemployed. He is also unable to pay for his sister s registration fees at the University of Walter Sisulu.He said Securitas had offered to re-employ some workers but only after 24 months and not at UWC.Falteni said that he felt criminalised by the current security guards at the university. They treat us like criminals, the security and the police that stop us from entering the UWC premises. He said that when they want to visit friends at the university, they are blocked from entering. I ve been working here for six years at UWC. I never stole anything. I never burnt anything, he said.UWC spokesperson Luthando Tyhalibongo told GROUNDUP that the matter was between the workers and their employer.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.