S Thembile CeleMagdalene Moonsamy Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Former Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) treasurer-general Magdalene Moonsamy says that she will not be dictated to on who she may or may not associate with.This follows a week of insults being hurled her way after telling a media outlet that the EFF sold out when they opted to vote with the DA in councils after last year&rsquo;s local government elections.Moonsamy told City Press this week that she was not a member of the ANC, but that did not mean that she could not engage with the party. Following the interview with Jacaranda FM on Monday, a poster was then released on social media announcing a political discussion between Moonsamy and Tshwane ANC Youth League chairperson Lesego Makhubela next Thursday. &ldquo;I am not a member of the ANC. I am an activist. The branch that has invited me is the branch I joined when I moved to Tshwane. Those are people who I have been actively engaged with all the time. That has never been a secret,&rdquo; Moonsamy said.The attorney, who resigned from her position as an official of the EFF last year, is adamant that she will not be bullied.&ldquo;I relate to many people. How do you have a democracy that limits your engagement and isolates your associations on the basis that your ideas are going to be streamlined into the thinking of other individuals. &ldquo;No, I won&rsquo;t allow that. I won&rsquo;t allow propaganda to reduce healthy engagements.&rdquo;Meanwhile, within the EFF some national and provincial leaders have told City Press that they were dumbfounded by Moonsamy raising the issue about elections &ldquo;out of the blue&rdquo;.Deputy secretary-general Hlengiwe Hlophe said that Moonsamy had had the chance to raise the view within the party but had not done so. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t know where it is coming from now. There was no fight when she resigned from Parliament for her articles or when she left last year to pursue her practice. &ldquo;While she was with the party she wasn&rsquo;t always available to do the work with the structures on the ground,&rdquo; Hlophe said.Others in the EFF have said that Moonsamy has recently had close ties with ANC activist Mzwanele Manyi and that her timing in choosing to speak out looked suspicious.When asked about her relationship with Manyi, Moonsamy reiterated that she did and would continue to engage with any person from any organisation who wanted to know her views.Moonsamy&rsquo;s relationship with EFF president Julius Malema and deputy president Floyd Shivambu dates back to the trio&rsquo;s time in the ANC Youth League. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.