 gen Vos, Netwerk24Bus. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories There's hope for families of missing persons thanks to a collaborations between SAPS and NGOs. Watch.WATCHCape Town - A Kuils River dad says he's furious with his daughter, who was missing for more than a week after she and a friend caught a bus to Johannesburg to "explore the country".&nbsp; The police and community members had been searching for Nayoca Plato, 17, and Robyn van Leeve, 19, since the two matrics disappeared without a trace on March 1.&nbsp;&nbsp; Deon Plato, 50, Nayoca's dad, confirmed to Netwerk24 on Tuesday evening that the two had been found unharmed in Roodepoort."She [Nayoca] and her friend went to the beach in Cape Town after school on the first [of March] and apparently decided it was time to tour the country," Plato said.&nbsp; "They caught a bus to Bloemfontein and, from there, another one to Johannesburg. They apparently were walking about in Roodepoort when they realised that they were completely lost. "They went to a local filling station, where they asked a petrol attendant to phone the police. They, in turn, informed me," said Plato. "I'm furious, but that will have to wait. At the moment, I'm more grateful that they are unharmed."Plato confirmed that another Kuils River teen who had also been reported missing - Chandr&eacute; Snyman, 16 - had also been found safe in Paarl.Michaela du Preez, 17, is still missing."Nayoca and Robyn were together when they were found and the police have confirmed to me that all four girls are safe."Plato said he didn't have more information about where exactly the other girl had been."However, I immediately called the other dads and they are all flying to Johannesburg to be reunited with their children."Plato added that he'd never been in Johannesburg and that he was still trying to find accommodation for them. He said he and the children would probably come back to the Western Cape on Wednesday.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.