Mandla MahasheTaxi violence has reared its ugly head again with three drivers dead since Friday. PHOTO: Monique Duval Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Three taxi operaters have been killed in the recent outburst of taxi violence that has erupted in Delft. One of them, Fumanekile Zibi, 46, was gunned down in Symphony Way in Luzuko Park on Tuesday morning. According to SAPS, Zibi was traveling from the Delft taxi rank towards Mitchell Plain when the incident took place. He was attacked by unknown gunmen and he managed to control the vehicle for a short while until he reached Sheffield Road, where he lost consciousness and crashed into a nearby house. He was driving a Toyota Quantum vehicle, said Captain Elliot Sinyangana. A total of about 19 cartridges were found at the scene of the crime. He sustained injuries to his upper body and the driver s door had six bullet holes in it.Sinyangana said the cause of the attack was unknown yet and none of the attacker/s has been identified yet, said Sinyangane. He said a case of murder was being investigated and called on anyone with information that can assist the police to come forward. According to the Cape Amalgamated Taxi Association(Cata) the latest episode was allegedly sparked by an incident where a rouge mini bus taxi was stopped by its(Cata) members on Friday. The taxi driver allegedly withdrew a fire arm and shot at the members. Acting Cata chairman Victor Wiwi said there have been tensions at the Delft South taxi rank after about 75 taxis began to operate without a license. These people want to muscle in and take our routes from us and there has been a dialogue to address the situation, but now it has turned violent. They have started to attack us but we won t retaliate with violence, said Wiwi. He said that the association had permits to work in up to six routes such as Nyanga, Langa, Athlone and Mowbray. Wiwi couldn t confirm a specific route that might be the cause of conflict. He said that they were in talks with the provincial department of transport to remedy the situation and has even called on the MEC for Community Safety to assist. We are the legal operators that were given license by them, they should protect us. Losing our men like this hurts.It s especially said because the people that are getting killed are taxi drivers and they are innocent in this, as it is the owners that have problems, said Wiwi. Commuters in the area say they are now living in fear of the violence. We have heard that only the drivers have been killed but when people are shooting everyone gets hurt, said Masonwabo Dyani, a Delft resident and commuter.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.