Tshidi Madia, News24Newly appointed Minister of Communication Ayanda Dlodlo (Lerato Sejake, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - President Jacob Zuma has sworn in new members of his Cabinet at the presidential guest house in Pretoria on Friday evening. Ministers who had been deployed to new portfolios, including Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba and Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, were also in attendance to support their new counterparts. Energy Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi, Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo, Tourism Minister Tokozile Xasa, Home Affairs Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize and Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi were all sworn in by Justice Sisi Khampepe. Six deputy ministers were also sworn in, among them Sfiso Buthelezi, who replaced outgoing finance minister Pravin Gordhan's former deputy Mcebisi Jonas. The ceremony comes amidst hours of outrage following the announcement by Zuma in the early hours of Friday morning confirming that he had removed Gordhan and a number of other ministers and deputies. Leaders in the ANC and its alliance have joined opposition parties and civic organisation in speaking out against the decision."In terms of powers invested in me by section 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa&sbquo; 1996&sbquo; I have decided to appoint the following persons as minister for the portfolios&sbquo;" said Zuma. This is the same power the president is said to have used to ignore his own political party and alliance partners when he made changes to his Cabinet. A smooth swearing in ceremony was disrupted when veteran eNCA journalist Iman Rappetti attempted to get insight from the president behind his rationale in making the changes. Zuma refused to respond as he left the room. Malusi Gigaba, the new finance minister, at the swearing in of President Jacob Zuma's new cabinet members. (Lerato Sejake, News24)24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.