Weekly Reporter    A STERN warning is being sent to the public to refrain from buying municipal flats in Cornubia Housing Development near Verulam.The eThekwini Municipality said people are using municipal officials names when they “sell” the flats in exchange for money. Two people were arrested in separate sting operations after they used the names of two officials from the Human Settlement Unit. eThekwini Municipality said in a statement that victims who were promised houses in exchange for money reported the matter to municipal officials. “The Human Settlements official, whose name had been falsely implicated in the syndicate, said he had found out about the illegal sales when people approached him about buying municipal houses in the Cornubia development. “This matter was then reported to the City Integrity and Investigations Unit [for further investigation]. It emerged that the syndicate was operating falsely using the names of two other city officials working for eThekwini  Municipality. Working with Metro police and the Human Settlements Unit, they set up a sting operation to nab the fraudsters.” It alleged that the flats were sold for R45 000 and more, and after payment was made the victim was given a letter bearing the logo of eThekwini Municipality and the KZN Department of Human Settlements. Municipality said the suspects then told victims to go to municipal offices in Durban and collect the keys for their new home.   eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede said in a statement: “The Human Settlements Department follows a strict Cornubia Allocation Policy which was approved by the council on March 31, 2015.    “Houses in Cornubia or in any city developments are also not for sale.” Gumede urged residents to report any form of fraud, corruption, human rights violations and discrimination to the city integrity and investigations Unit on 0800 202020. Residents can also email their complaints to ombuds@durban.gov.za      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  