Amanda Khoza and Ahmed Areff, News24Embattled Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza seeks divine intervention at Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng s Incredible Happenings Ministry in Katlehong. (Amanda Khoza, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - In his first public appearance since the High Court in Pretoria found that his appointment was unlawful, embattled Hawks boss Berning Ntlemeza&nbsp;sought divine intervention from controversial pastor Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng. &nbsp;"You are strong, unbreakable, unshaken and untouchable," Mboro said during Sunday's service at the Incredible Happenings Ministry on the East Rand.&nbsp; "Even if the court says it is over, it is not over until God says so."&nbsp;Mboro told Ntlemeza that the church has always wanted to partner with him because he took a firm stance on crime. "Your work speaks for itself, General Ntlemeza. You will reach your destination. It is not over, it is just beginning. "You are not going to be a nobody. You are not going to lose your dignity."&nbsp;Mboro said Ntlemeza was a father, grandfather, and a human being, "He has feelings too."#Ntlemeza: Mboro praying for Ntlemeza, God must be with him during this time after the High Court set aside us appointment. @News24 pic.twitter.com/y6D7bQan9zBoth Mboro and Ntlemeza took time during the service to say the country's journalists needed prayers.&nbsp; "I want to greet you... journalists of this country," Ntlemeza told congregants.&nbsp;"[We are]... here to talk to the journalists and believers. Journalists are believers as well... &nbsp;journalists have problems too.&nbsp;"I know that some people have... speculated about out visit here today. They have utilised the figments of their imagination and told lies which gave themselves beliefs about us. But we are unshaken," Ntlemeza said.&nbsp; Mboro said he would also pray for journalists. "Journalists are human too and need prayer," Mboro said."We pray for our journalists. They do great work. They build, the expose. They do a lot of good.&nbsp;"They write a lot. Some God, they are in debt... some of their children are on drugs, they can't write about that.&nbsp; "We pray that God bless them and strengthen them."He said some journalists were angry and wanted to "punish people wrongly", and that God needed to help them.Ntlemeza was expected back at work on Monday despite the high court ruling on Friday that set aside his appointment, finding that it was unlawful and invalid. The Helen Suzman Foundation and Freedom Under Law brought the application and asked the court to refer the appointment back to a selection panel for a new candidate to be chosen.Mboro can under the spotlight in 2016 when pictures claiming to be of him in heaven reportedly appeared on a Facebook page created under his name. Someone claiming to be his spokesperson also allegedly said the pictures were for sale.Mboro rejected claims that he went to heaven on Easter Sunday and had pictures taken with Jesus Christ. &nbsp; He said because he had not yet died, there was no reason for him to have visited heaven. &ldquo;If I had pictures of heaven, my whole family and church would have seen it. I would never insult Jesus like that,&rdquo; he said.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.