Amanda Khoza, News24 Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini. (Lulama Zenzile, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini on Friday apologised unreservedly to millions of grant beneficiaries for the anxiety she had put them through. "The minister wants to apologise to all the grant beneficiaries for all the anxiety and the fear that they went through in the past few weeks," said her spokesperson Lumka Olifant. "She will adhere to the order of the court and, most importantly, the winners of this court judgment are the people of South Africa, especially those getting the social grant." Dlamini welcomed Friday's Constitutional Court ruling and she believed it was the right forum to hear the matter, Olifant said. The court ordered that the invalid contract for Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) to pay SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) grants be extended for 12 months, under the same terms and conditions, and under strict supervision. Costs The declaration of the invalidity of the previous contract between Sassa and CPS would be suspended for 12 months, Justice Johan Froneman read from the order. Dlamini had until March 31 to show why she should not be joined to the proceedings in her personal capacity, and why she should not pay the costs of the application from her own pocket. If CPS wanted to change how much it got paid, it could approach National Treasury. Dlamini and Sassa were ordered to file affidavits every three months. - Read more: What Justice Froneman said on Sassa judgment The court gallery was packed to capacity with journalists, lawyers and supporters of the Black Sash. On Wednesday, the court heard an application by the Black Sash for an order that it exercise supervisory jurisdiction over any new contract to pay social grants and its implementation. During the hearing, a frustrated Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng asked how Sassa and Dlamini came to be seen to display such incompetence in their handling of the debacle. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  