Jenna Etheridge, News24The accused in the Parow Regional Court. (James de Villiers, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The Film and Publication Board (FPB) is analysing child pornography allegedly connected to a suspended State prosecutor, the Parow Magistrate's Court in Cape Town heard on Thursday.The man, whose name is known to News24 and who also faces sexual assault allegations, cannot be identified.He approached the State before court to ask about the charge sheet. The prosecutor could not help him because she was standing in.Dressed in a suit, he appeared without a lawyer. He told Magistrate Elsa van Zyl he hoped to appoint someone by his next appearance. He is out on R1 000 bail.Van Zyl heard that the State needed more time to add documents to the charge sheet. It was waiting for a report from the FPB, which would inform the annexures on child pornography.Victims' areaShe granted a postponement until May 5.The FPB is mandated to analyse and classify DVDs or digital media confiscated from accused people.According to its website, it has to determine whether this contains pornographic material, and to issue a report and certificate to ensure successful prosecution.The board has certified content analysts who act as expert witnesses in such cases.At his court appearance in December, the accused asked to be allowed to enter the Malmesbury and Atlantis area, where his alleged victims live.Van Zyl refused his request.When he was arrested, he indicated to investigating officers that he stayed in Robertson, but told the court that he had made a mistake under pressure."I am renting a flat for my ex [girlfriend] and daughter in Robertson, but I actually stay in Malmesbury. I only told them [the investigators] that I live in Robertson, as it might have been an option at the time," he said at the last appearance.He added that travelling to and from Robertson could be too much of an expense for him.On Thursday, he was granted an amendment in the times he had to report to a police station every Friday. He would now be allowed to report between 07:00 and 16:00, instead of 08:00 and 16:00. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.