ReporterThe Chairman of the Malabar Home for the Aged, Mogan Segadavan (red shirt), with residents of the Malabar Home for the Aged, which has been selected as the beneficiary of the 2017 Algoa Cares Charity Golf Day. Photo:SUPPLIED Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories IT is once again time for the Algoa Cares Charity Golf Day to take place and this year, the Malabar Home for the Aged has been selected as the beneficiary. After meeting many of the residents and becoming familiar with the diversity of their backgrounds and current needs, the decision to donate funds to help renovate the home to accommodate additional residents was made, said PR and CSI Manager at Algoa FM, Dohn Damons. The Chairman of the Malabar Home for the Aged, Mogan Segadavan, is a retired school teacher whose accolades include being named the winner of the 2016 Senior Citizen of the Year award in the age category 71 to 79 and being named a finalist in the Herald GM Citizen of the Year. The Malabar Home for the Aged is regarded as one of the best frail care homes in the Metro. The decision to restore and restructure parts of the building was made because of the urgent need for space. There is a waiting list of people who wish to be accommodated at the home. Some more urgently than others, and this is why the renovation is extremely necessary, said Segadavan. Sponsors are encouraged to design their designated areas according to this year s theme, which is Music Through the Ages. Theme it as the classics or with whatever s hot right now. Be inspired by the music that you love and design your area accordingly, said Dawn Hendricks, Marketing Coordinator at Algoa FM. The most creative sponsor will stand the chance of winning R20 000 worth of generic advertising airtime on Algoa FM. The Algoa Cares Charity Golf Day will take place at the PE Golf Club on April 7. For more info contact Dawn Hendricks on 041 505 9497.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.