Pieter-Louis Myburgh, Angelique Serrao, Monica Laganparsad and Amanda Khoza, News24Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. (Pic: Ntswe Mokoena/GCIS) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Fake employment histories, a string of non-existent telephone numbers and residential addresses that don't quite add up.This is what a News24 investigation into the identities of the three men linked by police to the brazen break-in at the offices of Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng has found.On Wednesday, two suspects &ndash; Given Msimango and Bigboy Yose &ndash; who police originally said were linked to the case, appeared in the Mamelodi Magistrates Court on unrelated charges.Msimango's brother, Nkosinathi "Moses" Msimango, was also being sought by police in connection with the theft of 15 laptops containing sensitive information on judges and other officials employed by the judiciary.WATCH:&nbsp;'Progress has been made' - office of the Chief JusticeOn Friday, Business Day reported that Nkosinathi Msimango was allegedly receiving protection from "elements in the state security services". The report comes amidst widespread speculation that the break-in was a Watergate-esque operation by shadowy intelligence operatives, possibly from the State Security Agency (SSA).News24's investigation into the three men has unearthed a web of work histories that appear to be fake, telephone numbers that go unanswered or that are no longer in use, and what appears to be false residential addresses.A Bigboy Yose, for instance, has a LinkedIn profile on which he lists his employer as Xena Properties. The owner of the latter company, however, told News24 that she had never heard of a Bigboy Yose and that no such person had ever worked at her business.'He was one of our own'The credit search history for the Yose who appeared in court shows that he'd listed his employer as Staluform, a steel and aluminium manufacturer in Silvertondale, Pretoria, in 2013. However, the company says no such person has ever worked at Staluform."I've worked here for 24 years, and I can tell you nobody called Bigboy Yose has ever worked here," said an employer in the company's HR department.Two of the telephone numbers Yose listed as his work number are invalid.There are two residential addresses listed under Yose's name. The first is an address on Jasmyn Avenue in Silverton, Pretoria. This address is listed as being owned by the SOS Children's Village, a local orphanage.According to Yose's credit history, he lived there between 2013 and 2015. However, according to Yose's ID number, he would have been in his mid-30s during this timeframe, making it unlikely that he would have resided in a children's home.The secretary of the SOS Children&rsquo;s Village in Mamelodi, Tryphina Masemola, said she has only been working there for five years, but she had often heard talk about one of their previous children who lived there, one Bigboy Yose."I never knew him and I am not sure when he was there, but he was one of our own," Masemola said. She added that the children's home usually keeps children until they are 18 years old.SSA denies involvementThe employment history of Nkosinathi Moses Msimango shows he'd only ever listed one company, IMS, as his employer, in 2014. It is not clear what IMS stands for. However, two Gauteng-based companies with this abbreviation which News24 called did not recognise him at all, and could not find him registered as an employee.A Google search on the most recent work number on Msimango's credit history shows it belongs to "Impala Cafe" in Rustenburg. The number, however, is invalid. A cellphone number Msimango had listed as his in 2014 was answered by a man who claimed that he did not know Msimango.Moses Msimango lists one of his addresses as a property in an estate in Mooikloof Ridge. The first listing names the estate as being in Rustenberg, but this appears to be inaccurate.The estate, according to a property search, is in fact in Pretoria. According to the estate's manager, the owner of the listed property had confirmed that no such person had ever lived on the property.A phone call to the management of the estate revealed that they and the owner of the property listed knew nobody by the name of Msimango who lived there.Of the three men, Given Msimango's credit history reveals the least. He has no listed employment history, no address history and only one contact number. The latter number went unanswered and was later switched off.Brian Dube, SSA spokesperson, says he will not justify speculation over the agency's involvement in the break-in with a response. The SSA earlier denied that it had in any way been involved in the crime.*Do you have information for our investigative journalists? Send an email to tips@24.com24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.