Alet van der Walt, Netwerk24iStock Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Bloemfontein - A Warden farmer woke up to find attackers stabbing him in the chest on Sunday night. CT Steyn, 32, was attacked without warning while he was asleep, his father Paul told Netwerk24.The attackers had broken a porch window and then used a crowbar to force out a steel gate in order to gain entry into the house. "It is a large old farmhouse and CT had heard nothing," his dad said.&nbsp; The Steyns use their land for mixed farming.One of CT's lungs was damaged, but doctors were able to suture the wound, Paul said. After stabbing him, the robbers tied CT up in a chair and demanded money and firearms, but he didn't have any weapons. They took his bank cards, cellphone and electrical appliances, before driving off in his bakkie.CT managed to free himself and used an old cellphone to phone his sister in Warden. She alerted Paul and their other brother, who also lives on the farm. Paul, who lives about 6km away, was first at the scene."He'd already lost a lot of blood, but was still strong."Call for heavier sentencesThey rushed CT to hospital and an ambulance from Bethlehem met them halfway. CT was admitted to the Mediclinic Hoogland, where he underwent an operation."He is doing well," said Paul. "It was traumatic for us. One hears about attacks such as this every day and can only hope that one doesn't become a victim. Some of the attacks are brutal and people get tortured. One can only be grateful that things didn't get completely out of hand."CT's Toyota Hilux bakkie was found in QwaQwa, where the robbers had left it, said police spokesperson Sergeant Mmako Mophiring.Mophiring said no arrests had been made yet.Jan van Niekerk, the leader of the Freedom Front Plus in the Free State, said prosecution should be improved and there should be heavier sentences to deter farm attackers. A Democratic Alliance member of the Free State legislature, Leona Kleynhans, said the government should create special units which focus on rural safety. Tommie Esterhuyse, the chairperson of Free State agriculture's rural safety committee, said it was of the utmost importance that all stakeholders work together in terms of the rural safety plan.The organisation said the attack on Steyn was the eighth farm attack in the province in 2017. Three farmers and five farmworkers were victims in those incidents. No farm murders have been committed in the Free State so far this year.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.