Nombulelo Damba-Hendrik, GroundUpHardly any street lights work along Qumza Highway in Mdantsane. (Nombulelo Damba-Hendrik, GroundUp) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A dash-cam from an armed response vehicle captured a horrific accident late last Thursday in Church Street, Bronkhorstspruit, after a Golf 6 and a minibus skipped red/ amber lights and collided. Watch. WATCHBuffalo City - In a bid to reduce crime, the Buffalo City Municipality set aside R13m in May 2016 to install and maintain street lights in Mdantsane, Duncan Village, and Dimbaza.But most of the new lights in Mdantsane do not work, GroundUp reported.Kholeka Mfikili, from NU2 section 39, said that in her area the street lights stopped working a week after they had been fixed.She said residents had reported the broken street lights, but nothing had been done.Residents no longer bothered calling the municipality about the lights, she said.&ldquo;This area is very dark and people are being robbed. Almost every day I hear people crying at night and in the morning. It is not nice to live next to a road with no street lights."Mfikili said with winter looming, she depended on her neighbour&rsquo;s son to accompany her to the bus stop every morning.&ldquo;My bus leaves at 06:10 and it is still dark at that time because I leave my house at 05:40,&rdquo; she said.When GroundUp visited the Mdantsane Highway mall, no street lights were working. On Qumza Highway, only two street lights were on.Vendors outside the shopping centre said they used candles at night and relied on lights from a big-screen television at the Highway taxi rank.&ldquo;At night people are robbed here because it&rsquo;s dark and criminals can easily run away without being seen,&rdquo; said a meat vendor, who identified herself only as Nosiseko.Another vendor said she had been robbed twice at Highway.&ldquo;Early last year, I was busy packing my stock. One robber grabbed my money bag and ran away. There were people next to my stand but they did not see it. People only heard me crying and those tsotsis were gone with all my money,&rdquo; she said.Ward 42 councillor Senduka Maphuku said residents of informal settlements in NU1 and NU2 had made illegal electricity connections to the newly-installed street lights.To solve the problem, the municipality would have to electrify the informal settlement.&ldquo;This is what we are busy doing,&rdquo; he said.Buffalo City metropolitan municipality spokesperson Sibusiso Cindi said street lights did get fixed, but criminals vandalised them.&ldquo;This is a crisis we are facing. We are aware that a lot of street lights are not working in Mdantsane. We are doing our best to fix them, but criminals keep on vandalising them,&rdquo; he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.