Mandla Mahashe The two Mozambican men were arrested after they allegedly scammed a Khayelitsha man. PHOTO: Mandla Mahashe Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The magic spell of two so-called doctors failed to change paper into money and has instead landed them into trouble with the law.Cops have arrested two men from Lower Crossroads after they conned an unsuspecting victim out of his cash.The intended victim,33, said the men promised him good luck and more money.He parted with about R2600, hoping they will bring him back a fortune on the initial investment.He has asked for his identity to be withheld, saying he feared for his life, now that he has turned the crooks in. I met these guys on the 25th of February when I saw them doing magic at the Khayelitsha mall, they were duplicating money and I was amazed. They took R50 notes and put them in the newspaper, poured some muthi and poof! There were more notes coming from that paper. I was so amazed, said the vexed victim. He said that the magic men then told the crowd that this was all made possible by a special medicine. So one of them took out 20 small envelopes and handed them to the crowd and I was one of those who got the medicine for free. He gave us his number and gave us instruction to use the medication and told us to call them, he said. The man used the medication and called the doctor on Monday and he was invited to the man s office, which is a back room of a house on Ncumo Road in Harare, opposite KwaMfundo High School. When I got there, they told me that I had bad luck and that if I continue using their medicine, I will be cleansed and that I will have money. They had what seemed to be a talking calabash, the calabash was speaking in a language that I did not understand and when the doctor translated he told me that the spirits in the calabash said that I must bring R2600 and I will get R20000. They showed me a bag that had R20000 in R20 notes but I would get that money, he explained. The man said that he was a 3rd year Building Engineering student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology and was not working so he needed the money. He said that he sold laptop at a pawn shop and borrowed R2500 with the hope that he would get R20000 and be able to pay his loans back. At first he told me that I just needed to pay a R1000 but after I paid him he said that I needed to pay all of the money and that is when I started suspecting fowl play, he said. He said after paying the rest of the money the doctor asked for more money and that is when he realised that he was being scammed and called the police. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.