The Free State chair of the South African Local Government Association (Salga), Olly Mlamleli, says the establishment needs to respond to the burning issue of land redistribution. “This issue is more important to us because we are a sphere of government that has and requires land for the benefit of citizens,” she said. Mlamleli was addressing attendees of Salga’s Free State Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) Lekgotla held at the Bloem Spa Confe­rence Centre in­ ­Bloe­­mfontein recently. Mlamleli, also the mayor of Mangaung Metro, told councillors the gathering aims to provide a strategic and political direction to the organisation at provincial level. Salga is in the process of implementing the second phase of capacity building, which is portfolio-based training, she said. The trainings aim to orientate and capacitate councillors into their respective portfolios to ensure that they become experts in their area of work. “We have in the past indicated that training and capacitation of councillors will be a continuous journey and not a once-off activity. These trainings will be conducted through the Salga Centre for Leadership and Governance. “We urge all councillors to take this training seriously, as it will determine how they become effective in their work,” Mlamleli said. Mlamleli cited several challenges faced by local government, including threats by Eskom to disconnect power supply to some municipalities. “We continue to take decisive steps to ensure that we find lasting solutions to these challenges,” Mlamleli said. “We will continue to implement the Municipal Audit Support Programme Finance Week to ensure that we continue to improve the financial viability of our municipalities. We believe that some of the improvements in municipal audit outcomes are indirectly and directly a result of this programme,” she added. The mayor urged the administration to implement the Municipal Audit Support Programme Finance Week to improve the financial viability of local authorities.