Judge President Mahube Molemela with three newly-appointed judges. From the left are Judge Joseph Mhlambi, Deputy Judge President John Musi, Molemela and Judge Mapina Mathebula. Photo: Mlungisi Louw  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The Free State High Court has appointed three new judges, including Deputy Judge President John Musi, to strengthen the judiciary. The other two judges are Judge Joseph Mhlambi and Judge Mpina Mathebula.  The trio was unveiled in Bloemfontein on Thursday, 23 February, following their appointment to the new positions in January this year.  The appointment is another feather in their cap. Their experience in the legal profession spans from 20 to 30 years. They were welcomed by Judge President Mahube Molemela, acting as appeal judge.  Musi, now acting as Deputy Judge President, began climbing the ladder in the judiciary as a prosecutor serving in the Magistrate’s and Regional Magistrate’s Courts. He has a Diploma Iuris, a BA in Law, a BA (Hons) LL.B obtained at the University of the Western Cape and an LL.M degree from the University of Cape Town.  Musi was born in Springs in Gauteng. He is a judge in the Labour Appeal Court and also acting judge of the High Court of Lesotho and has served in the country’s Labour Appeal Court, Constitutional Court and Commercial Court.  Musi has recently acted in the Constitutional Court of South Africa. He participated in the University of the Free State’s 101 Programme and has trained magistrates and judges on various legal issues. Musi now serves as vice president of the International Association of Judges (IAJ) and also as the chairperson of the Remuneration of Public Office Bearers (RPOB). Mhlambi, born in Kroonstad, has a B.Proc degree obtained at the University of South Africa. He worked as a teacher at the Dikwena Junior Secondary School, an administrative clerk at the Tshiya Training College in Qwaqwa and also as a clerk at the Boitumelo Hospital in Kroonstad.  He began his legal profession in 1980 as an interpreter in the Department of Justice. While working, he studied through the University of South Africa (Unisa) until he obtained a B.Proc degree in 1986.  He started his own law firm in 1989 and has been practicing as a lawyer until he was appointed to his influential position this year. Mathebula, born in the tiny Free State town of Villiers, holds a BA degree, majoring in law and African Political Studies, as well as a Bachelor of Law degree from the University of the Witwaters­rand (Wits) in Johannesburg.  Mathebula has served as attorney of the High Court in the Transvaal Provincial Division (now North Gauteng).  He has served as an academic and legal advisor to the former Vista University.  He also started his own law firm in 1996, which merged with Rooth and Wessels Vaal in 2004.  He remained the sole director until the firm’s closure in 2016.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  