Chelsea Pieterse PHOTO: Ian CarbuttPolice at the scene where Richmond municipal manager Sibusiso Sithole was gunned down outside Richlea Primary School on Monday morning. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories RICHMOND S municipal manager was gunned down on Monday morning in the town, leading to fears that the shooting will lead to more bloodshed.Sibusiso Sithole (39) was shot and killed outside Richlea Primary School in Richmond by two unknown gunmen.Sithole had apparently left the municipal offices yesterday morning to renew his driver s licence when two men opened fire on him.He was shot four times before the gunmen fled the scene in a car.Police, private security guards, traffic officials, ANC delegates and community members rushed to the area as the forensic team collected evidence from the murder scene.Richmond residents gathered at the edge of the police tape exclaiming and shouting in Zulu. Photographer, Ian Carbutt, was told to leave and that this was his final warning .Following years of political violence in the small town, tensions within the community are high, with fears that the shooting will lead to more bloodshed.In 2011, the Richmond Community Hall and other buildings were torched during ANC infighting over the nomination of candidates for the local government elections.In 2013, Richmond s then mayor Andrew Ragavaloo had five shots fired at his house, with one bullet hitting the wall directly behind where he was working on his computer.In August 2013, the then council speaker Thulani Shabalala and his wife were forced to take cover when stones were thrown through their bedroom window.His car was also torched.In September 2013, Richmond municipal offices were gutted by fires, including the office of municipal manager Sithole.In 2014, Sithole was quoted in an article by The Witness on the attacks on the municipality. He had said that he and the Richmond Municipality would not cower before such acts of cowardice and will continue to serve the community .A municipal source, who could not be named, said Sithole s death was just the start of revenge attacks and the killing of other municipal officials. There will be many more, said the source. Many officials fear they will be next. I am scared too. Richmond Mayor Joe Mchunu, at the scene of the murder, said he was shocked that Sithole had been gunned down. He was a very humble man who was very good at his job. The entire community is shocked. I cannot believe this has happened. We are going to have to sit down and find a way forward, said Mchunu.Sithole s brother, Mlu, was also at the scene but said he was not able to say anything as he was still in shock.KwaZulu-Natal Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda, who was at the scene yesterday morning, appealed to the community to help with any information they had that would lead to the arrest of the gunmen. This requires teamwork between the police and the community. We do not want people to speculate and ask that they give any information they have to the police. We will be meeting with police to ensure that no stone is left unturned in the investigation. Kaunda said the shooting appeared to have been organised in the way it was executed , adding that Richmond had a history of violence that he did not want to see repeated.In a statement released on Monday by Kaunda, he said Sithole was believed to have been travelling without his bodyguards and was shot at through the passenger side window.He said police are on the look-out for a maroon Toyota Corolla with ND number plates that was last seen heading in the direction of Pietermaritzburg from Richmond.KZN acting provincial commissioner Major-General Bheki Langa has commissioned a task team to investigate the murder. We will not rest until the suspects are arrested as this incident took place in broad daylight, said Langa. We are also appealing to community members to assist with information that could assist us in apprehending the culprits by contacting our Crime Stop on 0860 10111, he said.The motive for the killing is unknown at this stage. A case of murder has been opened for investigation at Richmond SAPS.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.