Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni (File : AFP ) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Kampala - Uganda's second most prominent policeman was shot and killed in his car on Friday along with two other officers as he left his home in Kampala, police said.Assistant Inspector General of Police Andrew Kaweesi served as the force's spokesperson and was one of the country's most high-profile officers."He was shot dead this morning as he was leaving his home coming to work," Inspector General Kale Kayihura told AFP."Kaweesi had two police officers guarding him who were also killed. The motive is yet to be established," he added.Police killings are rare in Uganda, and the murder resembles the assassinations of an army officer in November last year and a senior public prosecutor in March 2015.A large crowd of local residents gathered at the scene where the officers' dead bodies were slumped inside a black vehicle, blood pooling under shattered glass alongside the car. The bodies were later taken away.A local resident described seeing four men on two motorcycles attack the car the police officers were travelling in at around 06:30GMT as they left for work. "They shot very rapidly with guns that looked like AK47s," said Mohammad, a motorcycle taxi driver who lives and works in the area."The motorbikes came from behind as the car was leaving Kaweesi's house. The car driver tried to increase speed but they drove past the car and shot into it," said the 30-year old who declined to give his surname. "The motorbikes were new and the shooters looked professional. They weren't wearing masks but I didn't see their faces because I ran for cover."'Shower of bullets'Local mayor Charles Sserunjogi said he heard "a shower of bullets - many shots - from my house nearby"."I don't believe what I'm seeing right now. I knew Kaweesi well and met with him about a week and a half ago to discuss tarmacking the road he was shot on," he said.President Yoweri Museveni condemned the killing and "directed the immediate installation of cameras in all major towns of Uganda and along the highways," his office said in a statement.Kaweesi rose to prominence as he spearheaded the police response to widespread opposition party protests following a controversial 2011 presidential election.After a stint as commander of Kampala Metropolitan Police he was appointed director of operations and then head of human resources before assuming the role of main police spokesperson in August 2016. He appeared regularly on television talk shows, his most recent appearance being on Thursday night on NTV, one of the major private channels in the country.In March 2015 Joan Kagezi, a senior public prosecutor, was shot in the street and the assailant escaped with an accomplice on a motorcycle. In November last year Ugandan army officer, major Sulaiman Kiggundu - a former Allied Democratic Forces rebel - was shot in his car by gunmen travelling on two motorcycles. Both crimes remain unsolved.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.