(Evan Vucci, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Washington - President Donald Trump declared it a "great day for American jobs" on Friday as he formally green-lighted the Keystone XL pipeline, clearing the way for the $8bn project to finally be completed. In a reversal of the Obama administration's earlier decision, the Trump administration issued a presidential permit enabling Calgary-based TransCanada to build the pipeline. Appearing alongside TransCanada's CEO in the Oval Office, Trump called it part of a "new era of American energy policy" that he said would lower costs; reduce reliance on foreign oil and create thousands of US jobs. "It's going to be an incredible pipeline," Trump said. "Greatest technology known to man or woman and frankly, we're very proud of it." Economic development He said TransCanada could now build Keystone "with efficiency and with speed" and said the federal government was working out final details "as we speak". The decision caps a years-long fight between environmental groups and energy industry advocates over the pipeline's fate that became a proxy battle over global warming. It marks one of the biggest steps taken to date by the Trump administration to prioritise economic development over environmental concerns. Two years ago, then-President Barack Obama rejected the pipeline after the State Department determined it was contrary to US interests. Obama said building the pipeline would have undercut U. efforts to reach a global climate change deal that was later clinched in Paris. The State Department said on Friday that Keystone does advance US interests by improving access to a "dependable supply of crude oil." In a lengthy report, the State Department alluded to the Paris deal and said now that many other countries have pledged to address climate change, Keystone can proceed without undermining action on global warming. Exports The 2 735km pipeline, as envisioned, would carry oil from tar sands in Alberta, Canada, to refineries along the Texas Gulf Coast, passing through Montana, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas and Oklahoma. The pipeline would move roughly 800 000 barrels of oil per day, more than one-fifth of the oil Canada exports to the US. Portions of Keystone have already been built. Completing it required a permit to cross from Canada into the US.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  