Abram Mashego Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Six security guards from Reshebile Aviation and Protection Services who were on duty at the time of the heist have been taken for lie detector tests. City Press has learnt from three sources familiar with the investigation that the six, who were ambushed and ordered to lie on the ground by the robbers, had been subjected to polygraph tests to establish whether they were part of the gang that stole the millions.&ldquo;Our permits were confiscated and we were taken to Bona Fide Polygraph SA offices, where we were interrogated while connected to a polygraph machine,&rdquo; said a guard who asked to remain anonymous.The tests were conducted using a multichannel computerised polygraph instrument measuring respiration, psychogalvanic skin response, relative blood pressure and pulse. The security officer said that, although he was uncomfortable with the tests as he was still shocked after the event, he felt that they had been badly treated as officers from Acsa surveillance, and he asked why Guardforce employees were not subjected to the same process.&ldquo;What about the police officers who were supposed to be on duty? Every time there is a robbery, the officers are always absent. Do you think that this is just a coincidence?&rdquo; he asked.Bona Fide Polygraph SA yesterday confirmed that polygraph tests had been conducted.However, it refused to divulge the results, saying that only the client (Reshebile Aviation and Protection Services) was at liberty to disclose the results.City Press has seen a test sample of the polygraph test. It reveals that officers were subjected to questions such as whether they were involved in a crime at OR Tambo International Airport, if they ever bad debts and whether they had undergone a criminal record check. Reshabile also made headlines when it was discovered one of its officers assisted with the smuggling of dagga and cocaine to Heathrow airport. There have also been several security breaches under Reshabile&rsquo;s watch where travellers have been followed from the airport and robbed. The company has denied any wrongdoing. &nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.