Thulani Gqirana, News24(File: ANC) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth &ndash; Defiant former ANCYL leader, Andile Lungisa, is determined to run for the ANC's top spot in Nelson Mandela Bay, with or without the party's approval.The former youth league deputy president currently serves in the Eastern Cape ANC provincial executive committee (PEC), and therefore would not be allowed to run for the ANC regional chair position, according to a letter from secretary general Gwede Mantashe.The ANC in Nelson Mandela Bay could have a new regional leadership in place by Sunday, more than two years after President Jacob Zuma disbanded it in 2014.Lungisa, the former National Youth Development Agency chair (NYDA), wants to be at the helm.Mantashe's letter was circulated on Wednesday. The congress to elect new leaders will be held this weekend.Mantashe reminded members of a resolution made at the ANC's 53rd national congress in Mangaung in December 2012, according to which members cannot serve simultaneously on more than one constitutional structure."We have consistently interpreted this as prohibiting comrades from higher organisations of the ANC from contesting positions in lower organs," he wrote."Any attempt to resign from the PEC in the run-up to the regional conference must not be allowed, as it is opportunistic. Comrades must be reminded that the ANC structures are about serving, not power," Mantashe says in the letter.Lungisa told News24 on Friday that they would deal with Mantashe's letter at a conference plenary session. He intended vying for the top spot, as 38 branches had nominated him."I don't refuse, when nominated by branches. Even to serve on the PEC, I was nominated. If they [branches] tomorrow say I must not be part of it, I will listen. I always listen to ANC structures," he said.Should he get the position, he would resign from the PEC, in accordance with the ANC's constitution.He would compete against ANC MPL Tony Duba for the top post.The leadership was disbanded in December 2014. The party lost control of the metro to the DA in the 2016 local government elections. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.