Iavan Pijoos and Sharlene Rood, News24 Smartphone. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - An Ekurhuleni metro police officer is being investigated after he slapped a cellphone out of a motorist's hand on the Edenvale on-ramp, on the East Rand, on Wednesday. Motorist Diederick Stopforth's cellphone was slapped out of his hand and the officer proceeded to drive-off with his driver's licence. The incident took place at around 07:50 on Wednesday morning. Stopforth and his girlfriend were driving on the Edenvale on-ramp in the direction of the OR Tambo International Airport. "There were several cars blocking the intersection, and a whole bunch of us had to drive around a truck," he said. This is when an Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) officer pulled them over. "He kind of stuck half of his body in my window and wanted to know why I drove around the truck." Foul language Stopforth said he told the officer that he didn't want to cause an obstruction and was well within his rights. However, the officer walked around his vehicle, checked to see if he had any outstanding fines and checked the registration number. According to Stopforth, the officer used foul language, which is why his girlfriend recorded the incident. "He told us we were being clever, then grabbed my licence and walked away. He didn't write me a ticket; he just walked off with my licence." "I got out of my vehicle and followed him, switched on my phone and at this stage I realised that he had no identification, no name, rank or anything to identify him as an officer of the law." When he asked the officer for his name, he slapped Stopforth's phone out of his hand. He said when his girlfriend did the same; her phone was also slapped out of her hands, adding that it suffered a bit more damage than his. &lt;br _moz_dirty="" /&gt; Internal matter Stopforth said the officer then threatened his girlfriend. "He said that he will throw her in the van, teach her a lesson and show her what kind of officer he is." When SAPS officers arrived at the scene, the EMPD official drove off. They pursued him but to no avail. "We can't track the guy down. He still has my driver's licence. We can't just do nothing about it; people like this get away with this type of behaviour when people don't act," Stopforth said. EMPD spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Wilfred Kgasago said he had seen the video of the incident. Kgasago said the department will take statements from both the officer and the motorist. He said internal affairs would handle the matter thereafter. According to Stopforth, they had opened cases of common assault, two cases of damage to property and one case of theft at the Edenvale police station.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  