Iavan Pijoos, News24The couple during an earlier court appearance. (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - The wife of the alleged Springs "house of horrors" child abuser trial told the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria on Monday that she lied during her bail application to protect her husband and children."I did it to protect accuse one [her husband]. He told me that he was proud of me and that we had to stand by him," she told the court during questioning by her lawyer, Louiza van der Walt.She said that during her visits to see her husband in jail, while she was out on bail, he told her what to say."In your statement you say you were scared of the police. They told you that they are going to lock you up if you don't tell the truth," Van der Walt said.She said this was not true and that the man told her to say this.The parents are on trial on 42 charges including rape, child and sexual abuse, and drug dealing and possession. They may not be named to protect the identities of their five children, some of whom are minors.Drug usePolice arrived at the house on the East Rand in May 2014, after the couple's son ran to a neighbour for help. The father was arrested on May 23.Van der Walt asked the woman how often she used drugs."Just over the weekends," she replied softly.She denied claims that she gave her daughter drugs in powder form and said her husband did this.Van der Walt asked her if she could read or write. She said "no".Van der Walt read out a love letter the man wrote to the woman while he was in prison."Ek miss jou baie en dankie vir alles my liefie. Ek wil vir jou se dit maak nie saak hoelank ek vir jou moet wag nie want dit is deur en deur die moeite werd. My baby, my skat (I miss you lots and thank you for everything my love. No matter how long I have to wait for you, it will be worth it)."Ek weet as daar iemand is wat my hier kan uit haal, is dit jy. Ek gaan jou so bederf (If anybody can get me out of here, it is you. I am going to spoil you so much)," the letter read.Vaal Dam visitVan der Walt asked her to explain to the court what had happened during the family's visit to the Vaal Dam.The woman said she was in the kitchen making food when the man and their daughter called her into a room. The man told the daughter that she had to tell her mother what had happened to her."The daughter said that one of the boys who stayed by us tried to penetrate her, but they couldn't."When returned home to Springs, she had to examine the daughter."I called her to the bathroom and told her to lie on her back. I couldn't see anything, because I don't know how to look for it."The court took a brief adjournment. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.