Ingrid Oellermann, The WitnessSerial rapist was found guilty of 17 rapes. (File) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Ten minutes before a serial rapist was convicted on a total of 17 charges on Wednesday he became unruly and began shouting that the judgment was &ldquo;unfair&rdquo; and the judge was &ldquo;talking nonsense&rdquo;.Three court orderlies stepped in to try to calm the man, Bongani Sipho Mdunge (41) of Sobantu, but had their hands full as he resisted their attempts to stop him leaving the dock to return to the court cells. The trio confirmed later they had succeeded in getting leg irons on Mdunge, but even that did not subdue him. He tried to kick out at them, but did not succeed in striking anyone.All the while he continued to shout aloud words to the effect that he had a headache, that he wanted to leave and that the judge should &ldquo; get on with it&rdquo; and sentence him.Attempts by some of Mdunge&rsquo;s supporters in the public gallery to get him to calm down reportedly also failed. Despite the disruption Judge Jerome Mnguni tried to finish his judgment in Mdunge&rsquo;s presence, but eventually ordered him to be removed to the cells below while he continued to deliver his verdict. The final pronouncement of Mdunge&rsquo;s guilt on the charges facing him was therefore handed down in his absence. The law provides for court proceedings to continue in the absence of an accused who disrupts court. Sentencing was adjourned until Monday.Judge Mnguni convicted Mdunge of attacking and raping six different women at knifepoint, some of them more than once. According to the evidence, Mdunge used different methods to commit the rapes, including instances where he put an okapi knife into a condom before using the instrument to commit rape.He also robbed or attempted to rob his victims.The rapes were committed in broad daylight after Mdunge lured the unsuspecting victims with promises of helping them to obtain employment.The crimes were committed between March 2014 and February 2015. The court heard that although Mdunge was arrested in connection with some of the earlier incidents in June 2014, he was released on bail in September 2014.He was on bail when he attacked three other women.The victims were all aged between 19 and 25 years.In their evidence led by State Advocate Candy Kander, the victims described how Mdunge had lured them to go along with him by promising them employment.The first victim, a 19-year-old woman, was approached by him at the Spar in Selgro Centre on March 9, 2014. He asked her if she was looking for work and when she said she was he offered to take to a place where she would be employed. She accompanied him on foot to a secluded spot near a railway line where he suddenly produced a knife and demanded money. He thereafter raped her.He came across his second victim, a 23-year-old woman, in the CBD. According to evidence he overheard her telling a friend that she was looking for work and introduced himself to her. A few days after she provided him with personal information the woman received a call arranging for her to attend an &ldquo;interview&rdquo; on May 18, 2014. Mdunge offered to accompany her, met her in Market Square and walked with her to a spot near a railway line where he threatened her with a knife and robbed and raped her.He similarly approached his third victim (25 years old) in the CBD and arranged for her to accompany him to his place of employment where he said there was a vacancy. On June 15, 2014 the woman went with him and near a railway line was robbed and raped at knifepoint. The fourth attack occurred in November 2014 following Mdunge&rsquo;s release on bail. According to the evidence his victim, a 19-year-old woman, whom he met in the CBD accompanied him to a park where he threatened to stab her, demanded money and raped her.That attack was followed on December 24 with the rape and robbery of yet another woman &mdash; a 21-year-old &mdash; who had received a call informing her that a job application was successful. After meeting up with Mdunge in the CBD the woman accompanied him to Eastwood by taxi. After they alighted he lured her into a bush where he threatened her and raped her.His final victim, a 25-year-old woman, was accosted in the CBD on February 8, 2015. Attracted by Mdunge&rsquo;s offer of employment, the woman accompanied him by taxi to Northway mall and thereafter on foot to a railway line and bridge. There she was robbed and raped at knifepoint.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.