A man holds bond notes released by the Reserve Bank Of Zimbabwe in Harare central business centre. (File: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Zimbabwe s fragile opposition could be on the verge of forging a formidable grand coalition against President Robert Mugabe ahead of next year s polls, as it emerges one of Morgan Tsvangira s nemesis has buried the hatchet to stand up against "dictatorship".News24 Correspondent Harare - Cash, card or BOND?Some retailers in cash-starved Zimbabwe are offering three different prices for goods depending on how customers can pay - and President Robert Mugabe's government isn't happy."The last thing we want to do is start arresting people" who use multi-tier pricing in their shops, deputy bank governor Kupukile Mlambo said in quotes carried by the state Herald newspaper on Thursday.&nbsp;That should be read as a threat.The introduction of 'bond notes' - the paper currency that has no value outside Zimbabwe's borders - at the end of November last year may have seen a little more money circulating on the streets and markets of this southern African country.&nbsp;But it's not the "real" US dollars that importers need to restock. So in some cases customers are being told to join different till or pump queues - depending on how they pay. Obviously if you have real US dollars to hand over, you're the best kind of customer.&nbsp;"i am aware of illegal activities that are happening," Mlambo was quoted as saying. "Some of the retailers have a three-tier pricing system, for bond notes, swiping and US dollars. I want to be very clear about this: it is illegal."Offering preferential rates for the US over the bond is of course one way of devaluing the "Zimbond". The dizzying hyperinflation of the pre-2009 era is what both Zimbabweans and Mugabe's government are desperate to avoid. But many locals fear that it's inevitable."Bond note pump prices higher," journalist @Mathuthu tweeted in a thread about fuel stations charging different prices.Tweeted @Bushirous next to a picture of a Zimbabwe shop with a sign saying US Dollars Only: "US Dollar and Bond notes will never be equal. Nhamo yatanga muZimbabwe." (It's the start of trouble in Zimbabwe.)Different tills for different payment methods don't always mean a discount for hard cash payments. Major Zimbabwe supermarket chains don't dare offer three-tier pricing, for example. But what customers are seeing is an uptick in prices - for everyone.As Zimbabwe "hyperinflation expert" Professor Steve Hanke tweeted last month: "Zim supermarket chains can't charge diff price for&nbsp;bond&nbsp;note&nbsp;vs USD. Result: higher&nbsp;prices&nbsp;for everyone. Bogus 'bollars' ruining economy..."Zimbabweans have been warned.US Dollar and Bond notes will never be equal.Nhamo yatanga muZimbabwe #thisflag #tajamuka #zimbabwe pic.twitter.com/jztPDkDOBjGood to know. But every fuel station is doing it https://t.co/7HyCdPvvmX#Zimbabwe prices at one fuel station. Prices in US dollars and Bond notes ..... pic.twitter.com/grO7mhIk3j24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.