Samantha Lee @Samantha_Lee121 The visiting Norwegian gospel group with some of the congregants of Shekinah Full Gospel Church of God.PHOTO: samantha lee Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Over the past six years, a local church has donated around 600 pairs of school shoes to children in need of a pair.The Shekinah Full Gospel Church of God in Beacon Valley has donated 100 pairs of school shoes per year to nearby schools. The church is situated in the centre block of Beacon Valley. This is the last primary school in the area, says Thomas Porthen of the church. We asked the congregants to donate to the drive last year and this year we also got a donation from a group from Norway. The group of Norwegians have been travelling on a gospel tour.Based in the UK, the group was linked to Shekinah through an artist after a show in Bellville.The schools provide the number and shoe sizes of children who do not have shoes and then the church finds the shoes. Shoes are collected throughout the year and anyone in the community can donate.Church pastor Dean Carelse says: Our vision as a church is to impact on our community and what better place to do that than to invest in our children. These children have tremendous potential to achieve great things in life. As all the schools in the immediate area have received donations, the church will now reach out to other schools in Mitchell s Plain.The church also runs other outreach projects, including a winter soup kitchen and youth projects.Aurelia Carelse, Dean s wife, says their projects are in line with the vision of the church. You have to be a church that is relevant. You cannot find yourself in the community and not do anything to uplift the community. It is easy to report handing out but you also have to impart some sort of skill and motivation to help give people hope and see life differently when it seems like a hopeless situation, she says.V For more information call the church office on 021 376 1281 or Thomas Porthen on 082 777 7607 or find Shekinah Full Gospel Church Beacon Valley on Facebook.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.