Roslyn BaatjiesThis vehicle of the Animal Anti-Cruelty League (AACL) was written off in a crash last week. The league says this has dealt a severe blow to their service delivery. photo: supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE Animal Anti-Cruelty League (AACL) in Port Elizabeth s service delivery has been dealt a severe blow when its only working vehicle was written off last Wednesday in a crash in Stanford Road, Korsten.Linda Louise Swain of AACL-PE said the vehicle was being used to collect stray animals and to transport the community s animals. Our vehicle is completely written off. Fortunately our staff and animals were not injured. The clinic staff used their own vehicles to transport the animals that were in the bakkie and that were sterilised at the clinic earlier that morning and returned them to their homes. The damage to our vehicle will have a huge impact on our future operations, as well as the transport of pets for our big sterilisation outreaches. A total of 2 549 animals were sterilised in the outreach last year.Swain added that the organisation was desperate and had to get a replacement vehicle. It could not have happened at a worse time. Port Elizabeth finds itself in a tough economic time with the drought and severe water shortages due to the dams running dry. People just no longer have the disposable income of years ago to support charities. She says the situation is aggravated because the organisation s other vehicle is in for major repairs due to age and wear and tear.Swain has pleaded with anyone who can help the AACL to contact her urgently. We have helped the community and their animals for more than 34 years and if we are forced to cease our normal operations due to the lack of vehicles, it will radically affect the lives of many animals. Swain can be contacted at 082 838 3988 or send an email to hinoon@netactive.co.za.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.