ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe told Power FM that reshuffles are usually debated but this time they were "basically informed". Jump to bottom UPDATE: ANC top 6 meeting wraps, reshuffle expected https://t.co/S8GZcznw7W pic.twitter.com/AanrK49st1The rand reacted badly after news of emergency ANC top 6 meeting. pic.twitter.com/cvbMnMIiPY#CabinetReshuffle SABC reporting that Sfiso Buthelezi has made it into finance portfolio no specific position mentionedSfiso Buthelezi, current ANC MP serving in Parliament s standing committee on finance is former businessman, believed to be close to Zuma.Buthelezi makes all the right noises in committee meetings, criticising National Treasury for not taking a tougher stance against corporates and not giving enough credit to the good work done by the South African Revenue Service.Buthelezi, an economist by profession, had resigned as chief operating officer at the Makana Investment Corporation (an investment vehicle for former political prisoners). He is also a former chairperson of the board of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa. SPECULATION: Mbalula minister of police; Gordhan out; Bathabile out; Brown out. @News24 #cabinetreshuffleBrian Molefe, recently sworn-in Member of Parliament and former Eskom CEO, who was named in former public protector Thuli Madonsela s state capture report for his close ties with the Gupta family.&nbsp; Molefe was widely touted as possible finance minister and the Zuma camp will no doubt promote his extensive experience at National Treasury, where he served as a senior manager. He moved on to run the Public Investment Corporation where he took on big companies for not appointing enough black South Africans to their boards, the Sunday Times reported.&nbsp; Molefe also had a successful stint as Transnet CEO before he was seconded to take over the reins at Eskom in 2015, which at the time was plagued by blackouts and management troubles.&nbsp; In November last year, Molefe tearfully resigned from the power utility after he was named in the State of Capture report. He said at the time he was doing so to clear his name .&nbsp; His name was widely touted as a possible to take over the position last year. The Zuma camp would likely promote his previous experience at the Treasury. SPECULATION: Mbalula minister of police; Gordhan out; Bathabile out; Brown out. @News24 #cabinetreshuffleGuys do I tweet after 10 o&#39;clock? My Fren.....am chilling at a friend&#39;s birthday party....I respect whatever comes my way or even not, I knew from the onset to be in this positions is a privilege not a right #cabinetreshuffleI&#39;ve not being appointed anywhere am still minster of things Sport please STOP.Spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga told @News24 that the Presidency&#39;s statement will be sent in the &quot;next 30 minutes or so.&quot;#CabinetReshuffle Malema earlier: Once he [Zuma] announces the removal of PG &amp; Mcebisi Jonas that is the end of Zuma s presidency @News24Presidents Zuma through a statement says he National Executive in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness."The changes bring some younger MPs and women into the National Executive in order to benefit from their energy, experience and expertise."I have directed the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers to work tirelessly with their colleagues to bring about radical socio-economic transformation and to ensure that the promise of a better life for the poor and the working class becomes a reality," Zuma said.Zuma thanked outgoing&nbsp; ministers and deputy ministers for their service and wished new ministers well. "I wish to extend his gratitude to the outgoing Ministers and Deputy Ministers for their service to the country. I also wish the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers the best in their new responsibilities."Its on, #Asijiki pic.twitter.com/mgxxl9pnkBOUTA and other civil action organisations will shortly meet to discuss plans for mass action and other possible options to challenge President Zuma s decision to axe Minister Pravin Gordhan and other prominent ministers.&nbsp; "The President s actions are regarded as outrageous and without rationale.He is displaying gross disregard and neglect of his duty to protect the economy and to act in the best interests of the nation as a whole.&nbsp; Today, we are substantively poorer as a result of Zuma s cabinet reshuffle and we cannot sit back and do nothing about this dire situation.Once we have decided on our collective actions and the way forward, we will inform the media and the people of South Africa of where and how to participate. This is not the time to complain or do nothing. This is the time for active citizenry." OUTA said in a statement. DA MP David Maynier said the appoint of the new Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba, means that National Treasury is now firmly under the political control of President Jacob Zuma. &nbsp;"The new finance minister has extensive experience in the national executive, but he has absolutely no experience in the finance family , and his appointment is unlikely to be well received by the markets. "The new finance minister s principle qualification for the job is his absolute loyalty to President Jacob Zuma. &nbsp;The new finance minister appears to have been a compromise choice and his main positive is that he is not Brian Molefe. DA leader Mmusi Maimane urged South Africans to stand together and defend the Constitution, after President Jacob Zuma announced a cabinet reshuffle."President Jacob Zuma s decision to fire the Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan, and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mcebesi Jonas, should be a rallying call for all South Africans to stand together and defend our hard-won Constitutional Democracy."The President has once again shown that he has no interest in our beloved country s future or the 9 million South Africans who are unemployed. He has bowed to the whims of those who are determined to enrich themselves at the expense of the poor and jobless. This is an act of complete state capture," Maimane said.Its on, #Asijiki pic.twitter.com/mgxxl9pnkBIts on, #Asijiki pic.twitter.com/mgxxl9pnkBIts on, #Asijiki pic.twitter.com/mgxxl9pnkBThank you! I will continue to promote tourism to our beautiful country wherever I find myself. https://t.co/pyKuHnc2PdThank you! I will continue to promote tourism to our beautiful country wherever I find myself. https://t.co/pyKuHnc2PdThe Communists Party is the biggest beneficiary of this #CabinetReshuffle...Thank you. It was a privilege to serve and I truly enjoyed working with the Industry. Tourism has huge potential. https://t.co/LYEf5EmkXRHey, thanks Zuri. I am not about to disappear... https://t.co/gzBKOjmDh9I have certainly tried my best, and it was a privilege. https://t.co/LcK8RDDCESSpeaking to Powerfm, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe &nbsp;said there was disagreement with the cabinet reshuffle. He said they usually have discussions on reshuffles but were basically informed about the latest one. No reasons given. I saw it on the media release. https://t.co/rEliUZ134p Jump to top