Western Cape police commissioner Khominkosi Jula has arrived at the Philippi East police station, the informal settlement that has been rocked by shootings. - Follow News24 reporter Jenni Evans for the latest updates: @itchybyte Jump to
                    bottom Let’s work together to build a safer communities - Govt The government has condemned the mass shootings which took place in the Marikana informal settlement, Phillipi East, Cape Town. About 18 people have been confirmed dead, while several others sustained injuries, in separate incidents on Tuesday and Friday this week. “I am shocked and saddened by the senseless killing of innocent people in Phillipi East," said Communications Minister Ayanda Dlodlo in a statement on Saturday. "Government extends its heartfelt condolences to the families and friends of the victims who passed away, and wish the injured a speedy recovery.” Government called for calm to prevail in the community and assured the public that law enforcement agencies will not rest until all the perpetrators are brought to book. Dlodlo said the South African Police Services will continue to enforce the law and maintain a high presence in the area. Although fighting crime is one of government’s top priorities, the minister said it requires strong cooperation between the law enforcement agencies, civic organisations and the broader public. "We need to start making our surrounding environment safe so that members of the public, especially children can freely thrive in their respective surroundings. Change starts with an active commitment by communities working hand in glove with government." Dlodlo also said she was deeply concerned about the high number of firearms that are accessible in communities. "Government will work with communities to ensure the perpetrators of this heinous crime are brought to book." Mbalula on Marikana shootings: 'Our people can't live in fear' Police Minister Fikile Mbalula  has expressed shock at the news of 11 people being killed in a series of shootings in Marikana informal settlement in Philippi East. "These kind of attacks [against] our people can’t continue", said Mbalula, adding that the police are mandated to respond. “Police are mandated by the constitution to ensure safety and security of all persons and property in the national territory. I therefore expect Police to adhere to this mandate and find these [murderers], our people can’t live in fear. Our kids deserve to grow [up] in a non-violent society." Mbalula also supported the decision of Western Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt General Khombinkosi Jula to place Phillipi East station precinct under the care of a Deputy Provincial Commissioner, Major General Mpumelelo Manci. “I am glad that Major General Manci has been deployed in the precinct of Phillipi, he has vast experience." Mbalula encouraged the community of Phillipi to help the police find "these ruthless criminals who have no regard for life" and bring them to book. Friday night's shooting follows a shooting on Tuesday September, 26 
where 7 people were killed in what was believed to be vigilante murders. A specialist team has been appointed to quell the situation in Phillipi East after an incident where 10 people were shot dead in four scenes in the Marikana informal settlement. Western Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt General Khombinkosi Jula has placed Phillipi East station precinct under the care of a Deputy Provincial Commissioner, Major General Mpumelelo Manci, said Brigadier Novela Potelwa. Manci, who previously worked in Nyanga as a station commissioner, will be supported by a team comprising specialist detectives, intelligence operatives and high risk units such as Tactical Response Team (TRT) members, National Intervention Unit (NIU) and other forces. "Forces on the ground are currently executing search operations that are set to continue throughout the weekend. An appeal is made to community members with information to come forward and assist the police investigation initiated," said Potelwa. ANC calls for united stand against criminals The
 African National Congress has strongly condemned the killing of more 
than 10 people in overnight violence in Marikana informal settlement in 
Phillipi East near Nyanga, Cape Town. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said in a statement those responsible must be punished using the full might of the law. "The
 ANC calls on the community of Marikana, Phillipi, Nyanga and anyone 
else to come forward with any information they may have to assist the 
SAPS apprehend the perpetrators of these heinous crimes," he said. "Criminals
 live amongst our communities, they are harbored by us and until society
 stands as one against this scourge it will not be defeated." Makasi said they suspected the latest shootings were linked to the attacks on Tuesday and could possibly be revenge attacks. “People must realise that vigilantism can escalate the problem. Those who were attacked and killed, their families and friends could come and seek revenge for them. They will want to come and fight,” he said. Makasi said the community had indicated they were tired of the crime in the area and felt let down by the police and were taking matters into their own hands. Nyanga Community Policing Forum chairperson Martin Makasi raised concerns that the latest shootings could be linked to vigilantism in the area. “There is a major concern about vigilantism in the area, with the seven killings on Tuesday evening and now another 11 people have been killed,” he said. Call for calm after killings "The ANC calls [for] calm in the community, to allow the law to take its course and expresses condolences to all families who lost loved ones," said ANC spokesperson on community safety Pat Lekker. Lekker visited the area and shooting scenes last night shortly after the killings. She encouraged the community to cooperate with investigators. News24 reported on Friday night that ten people were shot and killed. “It
 is alleged that in the first incident unknown suspects fired shots 
inside a shebeen fatally wounding four people. [At] the second scene, 
three more were shot dead in a shack and one outside the dwelling,” said
 Captain FC van Wyk at the time. Brigadier Novela Potelwa told News24 that the death toll climbed by 
one after one of the two wounded individuals taken to hospital died. "We can confirm that the another person died as a result of gun shot wounds sustained in the shooting." Jump to
                top