Candice Bezuidenhout, Netwerk24 Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip and his wife, Janine, remain undaunted after recieving threatening SMS messages from an unknown source. (Supplied, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Port Elizabeth – Janine Trollip, the wife of Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip, on Friday received threatening SMS messages in which an unknown person said she would be raped and murdered.    In the messages, which are in Netwerk24's possession, Trollip is called a "pig" and his wife a "fucking bitch". The major's chief of staff, Kristoff Adelbert, confirmed on Sunday that Janine Trollip had received the messages while she and her husband were out of the city. Adelbert said Trollip himself had received a message in which he was called a "white pig". He is also warned in the SMS that "the people of Wessle want their land back" and that they were going to kill him if they didn't get their land back because they knew where in Walmer he and his "bitch" lived.   "Additional security has been deployed at the mayor's house and despite the language in the SMS being crude, he and his wife remain undaunted," said Adelbert. "The mayor has tackled corruption fearlessly, which obviously has angered those who have been allowed to plunder public funds. This coalition government won't stop until all corruption has been eradicated." 'We won't be deterred' According to Adelbert, mayoral committee member for safety and security, John Best, is working with the police to find out who sent the messages. "They have started their investigations. The person who sent those messages will be tracked down. The police are gathering information about the source of the SMS, but no details can be provided at this stage." According to Best, the police have started investigating, but a formal dossier will be opened on Monday morning, as soon the mayor has given a sworn statement. Meanwhile, the DA leader in the Eastern Cape, Nqaba Bhanga, has issued a statement on the matter.  "The threats, seen against the backdrop of current political assassinations, are obviously meant to engender fear. The DA strongly condemns it and is even more resolute to forge ahead with its programme for change in Nelson Mandela Bay," Bhanga said. The statement added that the DA's steadfast condemnation and determination to eradicate corruption were behind the messages. "These people are trying to instil fear in us and prevent us from making good on our promises to bring change to our city. "We won't be deterred."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  