Andile Sithole 
  A HEART attack and stroke are among the silent-killer diseases in South Africa. This emerged at the heart and stroke awareness day at Mediclinic Victoria in Tongaat on September 12.  The aim of the day was to encourage patients and senior citizens to go for regular check-ups to ensure they live a healthy lifestyle. Munima Gounden (76) of Bamboo Garden was among the patients who attended and tested for cholesterol and high blood pressure. Gounden believes it is vital to check blood pressure and cholesterol on regularly. “I test twice a month to ensure that my blood pressure remains normal. It is important to have regular checkups because we do not know when it is going up and down.” She encouraged seniors to take care of themselves and take their medications. “As a pensioner I want to make sure I live a good life.” Attendees at the event were taught about the symptoms of heart and stroke diseases. The ward unit manager Judy Naidoo said September is dedicated to raising awareness about cardiovascular disease in South Africa. She said heart and stroke diseases are the second biggest killers in South Africa after HIV/Aids. She said heart disease now affects people of working age, with more than half of deaths occurring in people under the age of 65. According to the Heart and Stroke Foundation of South Africa, one in four women will have some form of heart abnormality before the age of 60. “Despite this, women are generally more concerned about other diseases than about the health of their hearts. This often results in women ignoring symptoms of life-threatening heart conditions. “We aim to change this perception by sharing the message with as many women as possible. Awareness is the first step towards keeping your heart healthy.” The Heart and Stroke Foundation of SA said heart attack symptoms differ between men and women and may include pressure, tightness or crushing sensations in the chest or upper abdomen. “Women frequently experience vague symptoms not typically associated with heart attacks. Sweats, nausea, dizziness, faintness or shortness of breath may be experienced.” The KZN Department of Health announced that October 28 to November 3 is World Stroke Week and World Stroke Day on October 29. 
     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  