Paul HermanCape Town - The Democratic Alliance has elected&nbsp;Grant Twigg&nbsp;as Cape Town metro chairperson, beating out&nbsp;former chairperson Shaun August for head of the party's metro leadership.The party hosted 307 metro delegates in the Cape Town civic centre on Saturday to cast ballots for new leadership ahead of next month's provincial congress.August, a former Independent Democrats member like Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille, was ousted by Twigg&nbsp;after serving a two-year term since&nbsp;2015.The rest of the party's elected metro executive leadership will be:Twigg thanked August for the work he had done thus far, and will continue on those programmes that worked. Those that didn't work, they will improve on."As a new leadership, we commit that we unify this metro," he promised."We must give back power to the branches and their structures," he told the 307 branch delegates."You can feel the importance of your vote."Twigg said the agenda for metro meetings will change, and they will now have "political discussions"."We are going to discuss the issues you feel in Hanover Park, Kraaifontein, Lavender Hill, wherever, is a priority. We are going to feed those issues to the city, to the province, because we need to tell our top structures where the problems are."He also said that provincial leaders who do not deliver for the branches and the poor will be told they must leave, he said."Vote of no confidence!" one delegate shouted."2019 will be won by you," he told the audience.Delegates representing various wards around the city included federal council chairperson James Selfe, national spokesperson Phumzile van Damme and de Lille.August&nbsp;had been&nbsp;the subject of a reported t-shirt procurement scandal in 2016, having been accused of appointing a friend to procure t-shirts for the party. He was sanctioned and ordered to pay back a portion of the money spent.August addressed the issue during a chairpersons' report while the counting was underway, saying lessons had been learnt as a caucus going forward.Drought plansMayor Patricia de Lille was the guest speaker on the day. She said the DA's campaigning over the last few years has increased their support in the metro.Two-thirds of the metro used their votes as a stamp of approval in the party during the 2016 local elections."Victory comes with the realisation that even more work lies ahead for us," she said.De Lille also outlined the city's plan to address the "worst drought in the city for 100 years"."We are sitting with about 23% usable water in the dams. We can no longer rely on rainwater only to fill our dams. We have water in our dams until March next year."She said if everyone comes to the table they can use 500 million litres of water a day. They could not allow a well-run city like the City of Cape Town to run out of water.They will be getting an extra 500m litres a day from March from the aquifer's under Table Mountain and a desalination plant in Gordon's Bay."We are safe. Tourists must come, we expect a bumper season. Please invite all tourists to come to the city."Newly-elected DA Cape Town metro chairperson Grant Twigg being congratulated by colleagues while talking to the media. @News24 pic.twitter.com/Tk1tXLioKf24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.