Paul Herman Gwede Mantashe. 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - The Western Cape ANC has received more calls from unhappy ANCYL members to "delegitimise" the youth league in the province and to place two regions under administration. Members of the Western Cape ANCYL spoke out last week against what they called a "false impression" that they were supporting Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma in the party's leadership race. READ: WC ANCYL members break ranks from NDZ supporters On Tuesday, the group again released a statement, calling for the youth league in the province to be excluded from decision-making structures in the province. "We, as activists, believe that the decay in our organisation in these regions can be attributed to the desire to ensure that the ex-wife of President Zuma gets to be elected by hook or crook," the statement from the ANCYL "activists" reads. The group claims to represent the views of 15 ANCYL members in the province. The youth league, though, says there are only three members of the 15 who serve on the league's provincial executive committee (PEC). The activists believe the youth league in the province has served beyond its term and is no longer a legal structure. They have written to Western Cape ANC secretary Faiez Jacobs, asking him not to invite the "bogus structure" to ANC PEC meetings. They said there was "no space for Gupta stormtroopers and defenders of corruption". 'No identity' Provincial ANCYL spokesperson Siyabulela Tom told News24 that the "activists" were misleading the public. "We would be giving credit where it's not due if we respond to individuals who have no identity, who claim to be in our own ranks, yet... don't serve on a structure," he said on Tuesday. ANC members either belonged to a branch or served on official structures, he said. The statement was, therefore, part of a growing trend to "undermine the structures of the movement" and to divide the ANC. "The utterances that have been made clearly shows people who have no intention of making a contribution. There is nothing progressive in what they have sent. They are speaking about one negative issue to another." Tom said the public should not be "mislead" by the group, as they do not represent a structure. The activists meanwhile said preliminary party audits showed a "massive decline" in the number of branches in certain regions, and called for the West Coast and the Dullah Omar (Cape Town) metro to be placed under administration. Audit outcomes still to be finalised ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe on Tuesday said the party's audit outcomes into branches in the Western and Eastern Cape were still being finalised and would be collated in one big report ahead of the national conference. They would not separate the findings by province, he said. Provincial ANC Youth League chairperson Muhammad Khalid Sayed told News24 last week that all administrative issues were formally dealt with by the provincial secretary of the youth league. He, therefore, did not recognise the activists' statements. Sayed maintained that the league's national leadership had determined its preferred choice of candidate, which was Dlamini-Zuma, and that was a formal decision. Jacobs' phone was diverted to voicemail on Tuesday. The Western Cape ANC's well-documented factional divides have escalated this year in the run-up to the elective conference. The party's top six and national working committee had to intervene in an impasse between provincial and regional leadership in July after the Cape Town metro's leadership structure was disbanded. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  