Caryn Dolley Confiscated guns. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Controversial businessman Nafiz Modack, who is heading up a group intent on taking over nightclub security from a more established grouping, says he is in no way involved in gangsterism and has denied claims he is involved in rogue intelligence. “Sum people is trying to associate me to gangs wich is untrue as we cleaning up all clubs from drugs [sic],” he told News24 on Tuesday. Modack said, via text messages, it was likely those pushing drugs into clubs who were portraying him as a gang member. He messaged as it emerged that it was suspected that rogue crime intelligence officials were involved in, among other matters, the club security takeover and the smuggling of police guns to gangsters. On Tuesday, Netwerk24 reported that Modack is a suspected leader of the Bad Boys gang. But, he told News24 he had never heard of the gang and thought the publication was referring to a movie. For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld, see News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked here. Irshaad Laher, who Netwerk24 reported is a relative of Modack’s, is at the centre of a mammoth investigation into the smuggling of cop firearms to criminals. There has been no evidence yet to officially suggest that Modack was involved in gun smuggling. He does not appear to be a suspect in the case. Laher is expected in the Western Cape High Court on Friday, along with Vereeniging arms dealer Alan Raves. They are at the centre of a court case involving the alleged smuggling of firearms stolen from police to criminals.  About a month ago, in two separate incidents, a total of 33 guns went missing from two Cape Town police stations. Last week, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula said cops had likely smuggled the firearms to gangsters. Mbalula has since spoken out against criminal elements within the police and crime intelligence. Club security and intelligence claims Modack is heading a group intent on taking over nightclub security in both Cape Town and Johannesburg. He is taking over security operations from a more established groupings. The club security takeover has resulted in violence around Cape Town and Johannesburg. It is also said to be linked to several murders that have been carried out in Cape Town and an attempted hit in Johannesburg. However, several sources with intimate knowledge of the underworld have questioned whether the actions related to the takeover have been orchestrated by intelligence operatives. Sources with ties to crime intelligence have also told News24 that they suspect that targets of their intelligence gathering may actually be protected by other highly influential state figures, and that, therefore, their work is futile. On Tuesday, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula said he knew of rogue elements within the police’s crime intelligence unit. He was trying to root these out. 'I am not rogue intelligence' Modack told News24 he believed Mbalula was doing a good job. He said it was a step towards getting people to start trusting the police again. Asked if he was in any way a “rogue element” that Mbalula referred to, Modack replied, “Not at all AN will never be. [sic]” In May, News24 saw Modack meet Northern Cape police commissioner Risimati Shivuri in an upmarket hotel near the V&A Waterfront. It is not clear why they met. When asked about it via email at the time, Modack had replied in a threat, which he later apologised for. News24 had also reported that the Western Cape’s head of detectives, Major-General Patrick Mbotho, met with Modack at least twice over matters relating to a vehicle and firearms. Mbotho had denied this at the time, saying he had met Modack over a complaint Modack had with police. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  