Tania Broughton, News24 Correspondent School desks. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban - The 2014 matric class of a KwaZulu-Natal high
school, who were accused of cheating in their exams, have still not received
their results despite a court ruling ordering that they receive them. They are now
seeking an order that the national and provincial education ministers be jailed
for contempt of court. The application, which came before High Court in Durban Judge
Rashid Vahed on Tuesday, September 5, was adjourned until next week. The minister and the MEC were ordered to pay the wasted
costs of the adjournment. The pupils from Ndwedwe, just outside Durban, first went to
court in 2015, seeking the release of their results so they could "get on
with their lives". In his affidavit before the court, pupil Thabo Mokoena
denied any cheating and said all the exams were conducted under the strict
supervision of a full-time monitor sent by the education department and a chief
invigilator, assisted by eight others. He said when the matric results were released on January 6
this year, the names of 59 candidates from the school, including himself, were
listed in the newspaper as having passed. But when he went to school to get his result, the principal
told everyone their results had been "blocked" because of
irregularities. He said hearings for candidates accused of
"copying" were set down for January 20 and 22, 2017. They were told the subjects involved were maths, English,
life science and physical science, and the candidates were interrogated. The outcome of the investigation was supposed to be released
early that year. 'Too late' In his latest affidavit, which came before Judge Vahed,
Mokoena says, to date, the results have not been released. He said an order had been taken in October last year, in
terms of which disciplinary hearings were to be held before the end of
December. A statement of results was to be given to the school's
principal by November 2016, to be passed on to quality council Umalusi to
assess them and decide whether or not to issue certificates. In spite of the order being taken by consent and in the
presence of legal representatives of all parties, there had been no compliance. Mokoena said it was only in February this year that the
Department of Education requested dates on which the hearings could be held. His attorney had written back saying that in terms of the
order it was "too late". "We had suffered too much and we were not willing to
waive our rights to indulge them whatsoever. He also demanded the statement of
results," he said. But there was no response to this at all. Unable 'to find jobs' The next day an official arrived at the attorney's office
with a bundle of "notice hearings", which the attorney refused to
accept. In March, the attorney received another bundle - this time
it was a statement of results of 178 people. It did not contain a full list of
the applicants. In one instance, an applicant's name was repeated twice with
the wrong examination number, and 41 of the names reflected were not applicants
involved in the matter. There was more correspondence over the ensuing months, but
there was still no compliance with the order. Mokoena said the minister and the MEC were acting in bad
faith. "We have not been able to find jobs of any meaningful
nature and we have not been able to enrol at any higher educational institution
because of this," he said. He said the minister and the MEC should be found to be in
contempt of court and sent to jail for 30 days. Alternatively, the sentence could be suspended on condition
that they comply immediately with the order. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  