Daunting challenges facing Angola's new president Luanda - Angola's incoming president Joao Lourenco faces a slew of challenges that include dwindling oil prices, rampant poverty, soaring unemployment and the long shadow cast by his predecessor and his family. These are the key tasks that will confront him on his first day in the job on Tuesday: Fix the economy Angola has been in the grip of an unprecedented economic crisis for three years as the global price of oil has remained flat. Read more on this story here  Angola swears in Lourenco, first new president for 38 years Luanda - Jose Eduardo dos Santos's 38-year reign over Angola finally came to an end Tuesday when his hand-picked successor Joao Lourenco was inaugurated as president at a ceremony in Luanda. Lourenco read an oath in which he vowed "on my honour to devote myself" to the role of president, as he took power after the ruling MPLA party won last month's election. Dos Santos, who was at the ceremony but is reportedly in poor health, surprised many by announcing his retirement earlier this year, saying he would not be a candidate in the election. For more on this story click here  Zim shortages: Mugabe accuses own party members, vows to unleash unspecified action Harare - President Robert Mugabe has accused some members of his own party of causing shortages in a bid to trigger a revolt against his government. The president made the claim in front of thousands of supporters bussed in to Harare International Airport to welcome him home from New York, where he attended the UN General Assembly. "These are saboteurs, who want to cause panic against the government, so that people can riot against us, but our people are clever. They will not be swayed in that way," Mugabe said, in comments carried by the private. Read more on this story here  Zim's pastor Mawarire spends 2nd night in custody... at least 8 witnesses to testify against him Harare - Zimbabwe protest pastor Evan Mawarire spent a second night in police custody on Monday, awaiting his appearance at the Harare magistrates' court on charges of trying to subvert the government. Mawarire was arrested at his church on Sunday, a day after he went online to urge Zimbabweans to take action to stop the country's worsening economic crisis. He talked about the panic buying in Harare, and the reemergence of fuel queues, which he said showed the situation was urgent. On Monday, he pleaded not guilty at the Harare High Court at the start of his trial on an earlier charge of subversion. That charge stems from anti-government demonstrations he helped to organise last year. Read more on this story here  Mugabe warns Trump: No nation should be allowed to bully others Harare – Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabehas reportedly warned President Donald Trump that no country should monopolise ownership of nuclear weapons after the US leader threatened to "totally destroy" North Korea last week. Mugabe said this on Monday following his arrival in Harare from New York where he attended the 72nd ordinary session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). Trump stunned UN watchers on Tuesday last week by threatening to "totally destroy" North Korea, describing its leader Kim Jong-Un as "Rocket Man". For more on this story click here  Rwanda files charges against detained opposition leader Kigali - Police have charged Rwandan opposition leader Diane Rwigara, who was detained at the weekend along with her mother and sister, with "offenses to state security and forgery," according to a statement issued on Monday. Rwigara, who was blocked from challenging President Paul Kagame in August elections, is one of several opposition figures arrested earlier this month. Police said the three women were detained Saturday, having already been held and released earlier in September on suspicions of tax evasion. "During ongoing investigations, police uncovered credible evidence linking the trio to offenses against state security," a spokesperson said in the statement. For more on this story click here  Kenya police tear gas protests over electoral commission Nairobi -  Kenya police on Tuesday dispersed protesters in front of the electoral commission offices as controversy erupted over who should conduct the new presidential elections. Fresh presidential elections are scheduled for October 27 after the Supreme Court, earlier this month, invalidated President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election win. Police lobbed tear gas after shoving broke out between opposition supporters, who demanded the resignations and prosecutions of top officials of the electoral commission, and ruling party supporters who urged no change to the electoral body, said opposition supporter Cyrus Okemwa. Read more on this story here     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  