Frank Chikowore, News24  Colin Nienaber (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – A
white Zimbabwean commercial farmer Colin Nienaber was this week forcibly evicted from his farm in the Mhangura district of Mashonaland West province,
allegedly by Zanu-PF officials.  Nienaber was allegedly
forced out of his Robbsdale farm by some Zanu-PF authorities who were alleged
beneficiaries of Zimbabwe's chaotic land reforms embarked on by President
Robert Mugabe's administration in 2000. "I was
evicted by the state with a crop on the ground," Nienaber , 63, told News24. "I had 60
hectares under wheat and tobacco seedbeds for 30 hectares were also lost." The tobacco
and wheat commercial farmer, who claimed to have lived in Zimbabwe all his
life, said most of his employees had nowhere to go following his eviction. "I was
employing more than 200 workers. These people, including their families who
were staying on the farm, have nowhere to go. Authorities have said that my
workers and their families should leave the property by the 5th of September," said the
farmer ,who had since sought refuge at a friend’s house. Zimbabwe's black majority  Nienaber, who
had two children, said unlike another Rusape white farmer Robert Smart who lost
his equipment when he was violently evicted two months ago, he had managed to
remove most of his farming equipment from the farm. The eviction
of Nienaber from his property came at a time when a group of white farmers, who
lost their land at the height of the land grabs, were suing Mugabe's government
at the Southern African Development Community under the regional bloc’s Finance
and Investment protocol.  All the
farmers who were evicted during the agrarian reforms did not get any form of
compensation. Mugabe, who
owned several farms in the countryside, told his supporters in June when he
kick-started his current nationwide youth rallies that all remaining white
farmers should be kicked out of their properties to pave way for his party’s
youths and ordinary Zimbabweans who had no access to land.  The nonagenarian, who is seeking re-election in next year’s
elections, has been telling his followers that land belonged to Zimbabwe's
black majority.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  