Andile Sithole THE public is warned about responding to sale advertisements on an internet website. This is after a Verulam man was duped into depositing R6000 for a BMW advertised on the website. The victim, Nash Harisunker told the Weekly he saw an advert on Facebook and the website advertising BMW car parts, and responded to it. “I called the advertiser to verify if they had the spares I required. The owner confirmed that they had spares. “I asked him to send me a document with all the details and include everything we had discussed. “He sent everything and assured me that he will secure the spares for me. “Next day I phoned him to check what the progress was. He kept giving me stories. I asked him to reimburse me. “He asked me to give him time to sort everything out. I kept calling and sending him messages, however, he stopped responding to my messages.” Harisunker said he never suspected something was amiss in the advert as there were no other cases of fraud reported about the company before. “I trusted this guy because I saw he was also advertising on social media and there were no complaints.” Verulam SAPS spokesperson Captain Henry Kisten said the victim saw an advert on the website and contacted the “seller”, “The victim reported the matter to the police. The complainant contacted the seller with regards to the sale of the BMW car parts. “The suspect asked the victim to deposit­ the money to his into his account. “An amount of R6000 was deposited in the suspect’s account via EFT. “Thereafter the victim tried contacting the seller, however he did not respond. “He realised that he had been defrauded and reported the matter to the police.” Kisten said there were other cases of fraud with similar modus operandi. He warned the public to be on the alert and avoid responding to “to good to be true” adverts. The police said con artists lure potential clients into believing that the adverts are authentic and valid. “Our community should be very cautious when responding on adverts on the internet. “We asked those who have fallen victims to this scam to come forward. “Police are investigating a case of fraud, and no arrests have been made at this stage.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  