Jenni Evans MyCiTi bus (City of Cape Town) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Golden Arrow bus services, Metrorail and MyCiTi have said they do not foresee any serious disruptions to their travel routes on Wednesday as Cosatu takes to the streets in a nationwide anti-state capture march.  Golden Arrow spokesperson Bronwen Dyke-Beyer said the bus service would operate its regular scheduled services.  "We will, however, be monitoring the situation closely and liaising with law enforcement and the South African Police Services," she said.  In a Facebook message to commuters, it said, "Unfortunately it is impossible to predict how many of our staff members will be joining the strike. We will continue to post updates here as information comes in. We thank you for your continued patience and we would like to assure you that we will do everything possible to minimise any inconvenience to our passengers with the resources that are available to us."  Richard Bosman, executive director of safety and security in the City of Cape Town said the city had approved an application from Cosatu for a gathering of no more than 10 000 people on Wednesday.  The marchers are expected to gather at Keizersgracht street near the Cape Peninsula University of Technology from early on Wednesday, according to Cosatu's website. READ: Join our march against 'elite predator' Zuma - SACP, Cosatu Cosatu indicated that the march is expected to start at 10:00, and will stop at the Passenger Rail Agency of SA, the provincial government offices and Parliament where a memorandum will be handed over.  Bosman said city enforcement staff would help the police in monitoring the march and staff will also be on hand to effect the necessary rolling road closures which will be in place.  MyCiTi is expecting its bus service to operate normally on Wednesday, but warned that there might be some driver absenteeism.  Mayoral committee member for transport and urban planning Brett Herron said commuters should also expect deviations or delays when travelling on inner-city routes. He said commuters should follow @MyCiTibus on Twitter for updates. Metrorail also said its trains would be operational on Wednesday. Its regional manager Richard Walker said this was because not all Metrorail employees are unionised.  "Any participation will be on a ‘no work, no pay basis’," he said.  However, the rail service has put contingency plans in place and will monitor the situation.  Metrorail train Twitter updates for the Western Cape can be found @CapeTownTrains. SA Transport and Allied Workers Unions official in the Western Cape Xolani Mestile said that as the strike is legal and protected, it expected all its members to participate. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  