(File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Police have confirmed that one of the men who robbed a group of 36 Dutch tourists in Fourways, Johannesburg, on Sunday, was dressed in police uniform. According to a report by NL Times, the group, along with their tour guide and bus driver, were robbed shortly after arriving in the country and while en route to their hotel.  "We are extremely concerned that one of the suspects was wearing a police uniform. Therefore, we have assigned this investigation to a group of seasoned detectives from our National Investigation Unit (NINU)," national police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo told News24 on Tuesday.  A group of other suspects wearing civilian clothing robbed the group of their personal belongings, Naidoo added.  No arrests have been made yet.  'It was hell' Most of the passengers were over the age of 70, and were left shaken by the incident, according to one witness. "It was hell," one of the passengers told Dutch publication Telegraaf. "People panicked and even got firearms aimed at them. In two cases, the trigger was pulled but the gun didn't fire." "The suitcases were also taken out of the cargo area. They were busy for 20 minutes." The bus driver and tour guide were tied up during the incident, and there were no reports of any serious injuries. Concerns have been raised about what impact the incident will have on tourism in South Africa. Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba tweeted that tourism has to be a priority to attract money into the country, while Yusuf Abramjee tweeted that "crime is going to kill tourism".  Crime is going to kill #Tourism to SA if we don’t act urgently. @MbalulaFikile @HorbachBonnie @marisagerards @DIRCO_ZA @ortambo_int pic.twitter.com/HWXNiqlAB7  With such high unemployment, tourism has to be a priority to attract money into country. I wonder if our President is aware of implications https://t.co/Cwi7FF8273  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  