Heilie Combrinck =Lagenay Theron, principal at Mickey Mouse Creche shows the fence which has been targeted by vandals four times this year.                                          Photo:heilie combrinck 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A crèche in Gerald Smith has been the victim of ongoing vandalism. An urgent appeal is made to the neighbouring community to help take care of this crèche and to speak up if they know who the culprits are. “Our fence has been targeted by thieves since August 2015. But this year alone, we had to replace sections of the fence four times,” said Lagenay Theron, principal of Mickey Mouse, the only registered crèche in the area.  “We don’t have money to keep replacing the fence. The crèche belongs to those whose kids are schooled here.  Fees are minimal, thus the crèche is dependent on four fund-raising efforts that we held each year.” In the latest incident Mickey Mouse had to replace 30 metres of the fence after it was stolen. The total cost of replacing sections of the stolen fence have added up to about R8 000. “This is money that should have been invested in educating our children.”  According to Theron people living in the  area have seen the culprits busy stealing  the fence, but it seems that they are afraid to act. “We would appreciate it if the police can be more visible in this area. Criminal activities definitely are on the increase here,” said Theron. Although the school building is secure and equipped with an alarm system, thieves have also targeted the playground and stole some of the apparatus.  At the back of the school building there is a vegetable garden to provide fresh produce for soup or meals at the crèche.  “The garden has also been vandalised before. I really do not know why one would find joy in doing that. It is food. We provide our own fresh produce in preparing soup at the school,” said Theron.  According to Theron she would really like the residents of Gerald Smith to take pride in, and care, of the crèche. “I wish to thank the parents and others like Patrick Lindoor who support Mickey Mouse. This is the foundation phase of each child’s future education. It needs to be protected by the community, not vandalised!  
 Buy-a-brick project
 “We asked for a quotation for the secure green fencing. It will cost R499 000. This is money we will never be able to raise.” Theron said in an effort to have the children and crèche property protected it was decided rather to have a buy-a-brick project. This is with the aim to have the fence replaced by a brick wall. Apparently 1 300 bricks will be needed. Now Mickey Mouse wished for the public to support the crèche with the buy-a-brick project.  For more information regarding the project contact Theron on 078 087 5733 or 041 888 5036  
 Debutante ball 
 Mickey Mouse’s next fund-raising event will be its debutante ball on November 10th, 18:30, at the Allanridge Civic Centre.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  