Kailene Pillay, The Witness A screenshot of the messages between a local woman who applied for a job and the employer asking her to wear mini skirts and tight tops.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A local woman is warning job-seekers to be on alert when applying for employment after she was offered a bigger salary if she agreed to perform sexual favours in return. The Pietermaritzburg woman, who wants to remain anonymous, said she fears for her safety as the man involved is in possession of her personal details from her curriculum vitae (CV). The 23-year-old woman said she responded to an online advert for a personal assistant position at a textile company two weeks ago. She is one of three in Pietermaritzburg who said similar incidents happened to them via the advert for the same position. The others posted their experiences on consumer complaints website Hello Peter. Speaking to The Witness, the woman said shortly after she sent her CV to the e-mail address that was advertised, a man contacted her via WhatsApp saying he had received the document. “He asked for a picture of me, which I thought was normal for these kind of jobs because they want to make sure that the person they hire looks professional,” she said, adding that she sent him a “headshot” of herself. She said the online advert stated the salary would be around R13 000 but, after receiving the picture, the man told her that he could offer her R20 000. In her text messages to him (see image), she told him that she did not expect the high salary. “He told me he wanted someone open-minded and without thinking, I said that I was open-minded and hard working and professional. But then he said that he was looking for someone who is open-minded, as in someone who would wear short skirts and tight tops,” she said. “I was horrified.” She said she immediately stopped chatting to the man and alerted the crime alert group on WhatsApp. She said she also contacted the police, who advised her that they could not open a case, but would take her concerns seriously. “The people from Crime Watch and the police were very helpful. This is a serious concern as there are many gullible, desperate people out here looking for work,” she said. uMgungundlovu North cluster police spokesperson Captain Gay Ebrahim also issued a warning to job-seekers saying they should let their families and friends know all the details when they go for job interviews. She said that this was not an isolated incident in Pietermaritzburg. A Durban-based woman also told Weekend Witness she too was offered a higher salary, house and car by a Johannesburg-based man, who asked for sexual favours. Ebrahim said people must research the company and the person conducting the interview before attending any interview. “The sad part is that there is a huge unemployment crisis in the country and there are people here who are exploiting the situation,” Ebrahim said. Spokesperson for the Gender Equality Commission of South Africa, Javu Baloyi, urged women to report such cases to the commission. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  