Kaveel Singh  Magistrate's Court (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – Some residents of Chatsworth, south of Durban, are asking that no bail be granted to the man accused of murdering prominent former school principal Gona Pillay. "The community of Chatsworth [is] tired of these types of crimes. We are here to make a statement and say they must not get bail," resident Eugene Ishwarlall said outside Chatsworth Magistrate's Court on Tuesday morning. Ishwarlall and several other residents stood outside the court, holding up placards and chanting "no bail". ALSO READ: Arrests 'imminent' in retired principal murder - police "Mrs Pillay was a stern, well-respected member of our society. She was a wonderful person. For our community to lose someone like her is truly a sad affair," said a resident who did not want to be named. They described Pillay's killing as "brutal". "To kill her in that manner and also critically injure her husband is behaving like an animal." Pillay, 63, was stabbed to death on the evening of September 20 after four men, posing as potential property buyers, attacked her and her husband Logie, also a former principal. 'Heinous crime committed by cowards' The pensioner was stabbed several times and died in her Chatsworth home, while her 67-year-old husband, who was also stabbed, is in a critical condition in hospital. A 24-year-old Pam Golding Properties intern was arrested the following day in connection with the attack. He was charged with house robbery, murder and attempted murder. On Sunday, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed that two more arrests had been made. The three suspects were expected to make their first appearance in the court on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Pam Golding CEO Andrew Golding said the property group distanced itself from the intern. "Needless to say, we are shocked and deeply saddened at this terrible news. Our deepest condolences will be extended to the family, friends and community associated with the victims of this awful event." eThekwini Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer also welcomed the arrests and denounced the attack on the couple. "This killing was a heinous crime committed by cowards, targeting an elderly couple. Why would someone enter a home under false pretences to steal, but [then] kill an innocent person in the process?"   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  