
        The trial of Christopher Panayiotou and his co-accused, Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko, has been postponed in the Port Elizabeth High Court due to witnesses for defence not being available. 

     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 And just like that the matter is adjourned until tomorrow morning. #Panayiotou #Panayiotoutrial Chetty: Matter stands adjourned until tomorrow morning due to witnesses for defence not being available.  Judge Dayalin Chetty: Any objections?  MS: No objection PD: No objection  TP: Asks the matter to stand down till tomorrow.    TP: They will call three, possibly 4 witnesses. TP: We should finish our case somewhere next week. Murder accused Panayiotou due in court The trial of Christopher Panayiotou and his co-accused - Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko – will resume in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Tuesday. Panayiotou and his co-accused, Nenembe and Sibeko, are facing charges of conspiring, kidnapping, robbing and killing Jayde Panayiotou. A fourth suspect, Sizwezakhe Vumazonke, the alleged hitman, died before the trial began. Jayde, a teacher, was kidnapped outside her townhouse complex in Kabega Park, Port Elizabeth, while waiting for her lift to Riebeek College Girls High School, on the morning of Tuesday, April 21, 2015. ICYMI: Co-accused in Panayiotou trial have a case to answer for The two co-accused in the Christopher Panayiotou murder trial, Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko, have got a case to answer to, Judge Dayalin Chetty said in the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth on Friday.  Sibeko and Nenembe are facing charges alongside Panayiotou of conspiring, kidnapping, robbing and killing Panayiotou's wife Jayde, who was abducted outside her townhouse complex in Kabega Park and later murdered in a field near KwaNobuhle on April 21, 2015. A fourth suspect, Sizwezakhe Vumazonke, the alleged hitman, died before the trial began. Defence attorney Peter Daubermann brought an application to have the case against his clients dismissed under section 174 of the Criminal Procedures Act, arguing that the State had not proven, beyond reasonable doubt, his clients’ involvement.  
                Jump to
                top
            