David Mabuza 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      Mpumalanga ANC chairman David Mabuza, a self-confessed
recovering factionalist, has emerged as a self-styled unifier of the divided
party. "We have caused such huge damage, in fact, what we were
doing was wrong," Mabuza told ANC Youth League members last month, warning
against factionalism. He admitted that he was part of the winning clique that
“entrenched factionalism” in the ANC at the two elective conferences that
delivered us the train wreck that has been Jacob Zuma’s presidency. Mabuza would like everyone to believe that he is like the
biblical Paul who has discovered the truth on his way to Damascus.  But is his alleged personal transformation genuine or a
disguise for a new faction?  Mabuza sounded regretful. "What we have done in
Polokwane, what we have done in Mangaung cannot be repeated," he said. For the past few months, he has styled himself as the
unifier the ANC desperately needs, leading talks with different provinces ahead
of the December elective conference. But it is not clear how his past actions that “damaged the
ANC” are different to what he is doing now. As part of his unity project, he brought together leaders
from the party’s four powerful provinces on Saturday to Mbombela. However, the
second biggest ANC province, the Eastern Cape was not present. Limpopo and
Northern Cape chairs who are backing Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa were also
absent. The curious outsider among the leaders of Mpumalanga, Free
State, KwaZulu-Natal and North West was Gauteng strongman Paul Mashatile.  He was never part of the Premier League that orchestrated
Zuma’s victory at the two last national elective conferences and defended him
in his tumultuous tenure that has left the ANC and country reeling. Mashatile's involvement could be seen as the extension of a
pre-existing faction rather than a unifying project as Mabuza claims it is. The Premier League, the informal network of the premiers,
wielded power, and they had influence on the outcome of the Women’s and Youth Leagues
elective conferences. And it still
enjoys the fruits of the factional politics that now define all the formal
leagues.  On Saturday, the leaders agreed to an uncontested election
as the answer to the factional politics that have paralysed the century old
liberation movement. This is code for a decided slate by those with power. This is nothing but a reinvention of factionalism. It would
have the same effect of previous divisive strategies: deny genuine ANC members
the opportunity to decide on their own how the party should be led and, most
importantly, who should lead it. The proponents of this unity process have their own
challenge: Who will lead the “unity ticket” they are trying to ensure emerges
at the December elective conference? Ideally, a united front would have Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma
and Ramaphosa who are front runners in the race. But earlier efforts to bring
them together failed as neither was willing to deputise the other. Leaders from the Free State, North West and KwaZulu-Natal are
behind Dlamini-Zuma while Mabuza is said to be courting the third way of
current Treasurer General Zweli Mkhize. Some have said Mabuza had a fall out
with Dlamini-Zuma and while efforts to mend relations are still underway,
Mkhize is his alternative to guarantee him a deputy president position. And therein lies the problem: How can Mabuza campaign for
unity while he has a stake in the outcome?  The same can be asked of Mashatile. In June, Mashatile was singing the praises of Ramaphosa,
endorsing him as a leader who “will instil confidence and protect the country
from all forms of capture.” But some insiders say he has jumped off the CR17 bus, after
he failed to get assurance that he will make it on Ramaphosa’s top six.
Mashatile has not hidden his ambitions to leave the province for Luthuli house. Gauteng is widely seen as a support base for Ramaphosa, but
his campaign in the province has been lacklustre, despite it being his home
province. The Mkhize ticket would see Mabuza get his position and
Mashatile become treasurer general. Their personal ambitions suggest the so-called unity talks smack of
nothing more than self-preservation and coming together of a new super-faction.  - Mahlatse Gallens is political editor of News24. Disclaimer: News24 encourages freedom of speech and the expression of diverse views. The views of columnists published on News24 are therefore their own and do not necessarily represent the views of News24.   