Thabo Makgoba Cyril Ramaphosa 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The controversy surrounding the private life of Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, who has confessed to an extra-marital affair in the past, and the response of an Eastern Cape student to receiving an erroneous payment of R14m, highlight the divisions in the way our nation addresses public and personal morality. When former president Nelson Mandela’s administration developed its Reconstruction and Development Programme (RDP) to combat poverty and inequality, Madiba also called for an “RDP of the soul” to address the nation’s spiritual brokenness. Twenty-three years later, we have to ask whether this objective has received adequate attention. Comments in the media indicate a worrying consensus in the political class that personal moral uprightness is no longer a criterion for leadership in our society. Such tacit acceptance is worrying, and challenges religious leaders to do more to instil high moral values in current and future generations. It is heartening that leaders such as Ramaphosa and Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe, who was recently caught up in an alleged sexting scandal, have admitted their wrongdoing. But, just as the church has in the past criticised President Jacob Zuma’s extra-marital affairs, we must be consistent and demand that other leaders respect the sanctity of marriage and practise sexual fidelity. The young student who received money in error seemed to see nothing wrong with spending it extravagantly and on luxuries – even as other students were being expelled from university for financial reasons. There was far too little outrage at her behaviour in spending money that was patently not hers. Worse, many on social media made light of the matter. Along with this decline in standards of personal morality, there is a collapse in standards of public morality. In recent years, there has been a catalogue of court cases and decisions that are indicative of our moral collapse: the Nkandla judgment, the State of Capture report, the denial of a visa to the Dalai Lama, and allowing Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir and Zimbabwe’s First Lady Grace Mugabe to escape justice.  It is shocking how much some leaders in government tolerate the misappropriation of public funds. We may justifiably call such leaders disciples of corruption and inequality. We have slowly lost our sense of moral outrage and shame – we should therefore not be surprised when there is no condemnation of glaring examples of what is a departure from the values that Mandela had in mind when he advocated the RDP of the soul. Respect for the Constitution, the Bill of Rights and the rule of law must be linked to the personal values that leaders are expected to display. The restoration of morality as the basis on which South Africans aspire to live is part of the new struggle for a better, more equal society – it is inextricably linked to the economic emancipation of our people. We should be deploying resources that are currently being stolen in institutionalised theft to fight poverty. It is time to take moral regeneration to the next level – fully recognising that, for many of us, our own houses need to be put in order. For example, as a result of a recent elective assembly in the Anglican Church, disciplinary steps are being taken against a candidate who allegedly falsified his qualifications. We need to do the following: - The charter of positive values adopted by the Moral Regeneration Campaign is perhaps a good starting point for reflection. Respect for human dignity has been destroyed across all sectors of society, and these positive values can help us reclaim our basic goodness. - All branches of the state need to recommit to moral and ethical values. We must encourage a culture in which people take responsibility for the consequences of their actions. Without this, no one will think it matters if someone pursues a righteous life that is focused less on self-preservation and more on servant leadership focused on the needs of our people. - We need to revive the values of ubuntu in pursuance of the spiritual reconstruction of all sectors of society and in the individual lives of our citizens. - We need to support and strengthen the chapter 9 institutions that seek to instil a sense of order in the stewardship of resources meant to combat unemployment, poverty and inequality. - We need to teach morality and ethics throughout our education system, from primary to tertiary level, and make it compulsory in training for professional careers. If we are serious about restoring private and public morality, we have to agree on the fundamentals of setting higher standards for our leaders as a way of focusing the minds of our people on achieving the reconstruction and development of our society and of our souls. Makgoba is Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  