The Strandfontein Community Policing Forum (CPF), in partnership with Strandfontein police, are set on bringing the services of various government departments closer to residents. Sandy Schuter, chairperson of the Strandfontein CPF, says police are often faced with situations that are not within their mandate and find that it is due to a lack of information or resources made available to residents. She says most of the entities try to work together but on most days they operate in isolation. “They each have a service to render the community but the majority of these complaints and situations are left at the doorstep of police, which is not within their mandate and we have found that police are so heavily burdened with social development issues and then still have to be proactive in the fight against crime,” she says. “Police deal with crime-related issues and not social service issues, like youth intervention, problematic youth, unruly youth – it’s not the work of a policeman to execute.” Schuter says they identified the need to meet with the provincial minister for social development, Albert Fritz, to form a working relationship with his department to talk about improving service delivery to the community. The CPF raised some of the challenges that they often face, including the elderly, youth and unregistered rehabilitation centres. “[These unregistered rehabs] within the community need serious investigation and [we raised challenges about] the very little social intervention and few domestic violence programmes in Strandfontein,” says Schuter. “The provincial minister was very accommodating in assisting us with fruitful answers. Some of his staff were present, who educated us on the services the department provides, whom to speak to who serves Strandfontein specifically and also the point of referral to their department.” The CPF also met with the City of Cape Town’s social services department to establish a working relationship with them too. “We have been establishing various forums to make it easier to account to the community. We want to have representatives from the various sectors sit in our monthly meetings,” says Schuter. There is currently a religious sector forum, business forum, seniors forum, neighbourhood watch, social crime prevention programme and education forum. “We have established a women’s empowerment group for victims of abuse, for both men and women. If you’re a victim of domestic violence, join us so that we can help,” says Schuter. They are also in the process of establishing subforums in sectors 1 and 2. “If you are passionate about fighting crime within our community and would like to contribute your skills and time, avail yourself to the subforum executive,” says Schuter. V 
  To join any of the structures email strandfonteincpf@gmail.com or call or WhatsApp 071 947 8294.