James de Villiers Screenshot of the incident (YouTube screenshot) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Southern African Automotive Supplies confirmed it has suspended managing director Lance O’Leary after he was shown on video attacking motorist Christopher Price (71) in an apparent act of road rage.WATCH Cape Town – The Southern African Auto Supplies (SAAS) managing director who was filmed attacking a 71-year-old motorist in an apparent road rage incident in Johannesburg has resigned. In a statement on SAAS’ Facebook page, Lance O'Leary said he doesn’t want the "scrutiny" he is currently under to impact the lives of employees and stakeholders of the company. "I sincerely apologise to all involved at SAAS and to all who have experienced any undue pressure as a result of my actions," O'Leary said. After footage of the incident surfaced online, O'Leary was suspended by the company at the beginning of September. WATCH: Company suspends MD after road rage attack on elderly motorist In addition to his resignation, O’Leary said he has entered into discussions to dispose of all his shares in the company "to further protect the employees whose livelihood is so dependent on the company's well-being". "Until such a time that an agreement has been finalised, I leave SAAS to the very capable management team." 'Right of way' O’Leary previously told News24 that he was forced off the road on August 30 by Christopher Price, 71, who he said then intentionally drove into his stationary vehicle, causing damages of R100 000. "He fled the scene of the accident," said O'Leary. "I was forced to chase after him." "I am in no way trying to justify or sanction my actions – merely provide a context to the circumstances that lead to the event in question. I have never reacted like this before and it’s not typical behaviour," O'Leary said. In a video of the incident, O’Leary is seen hitting Price’s Range Rover, destroying one of the vehicle's mirrors and damaging the rear wipers. Price laid a charge of assault following the incident. O'Leary was also caught on camera shoving Price’s passenger Donovan Thomson, who has filed his own case of assault against O’Leary. Price’s son Hadleigh said his father and O’Leary drove into one another after an altercation at an intersection in which Price cut O’Leary off. "Two lanes were going into one and my dad had right of way," Hadleigh told News24. In the Price family’s version, O’Leary "went ballistic" when the motorists pulled over at the closest garage to swap details. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  