Kaveel Singh Senzo Mchunu before testifying at the Moerane Commission. (Kaveel Singh/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – Former KwaZulu-Natal premier Senzo Mchunu has highlighted various methods used to corrupt voting processes in local structures of the ANC. Mchunu was speaking on Wednesday at the Moerane Commission on political killings that have plagued the province since 2011. According to Mchunu, various methods are used to manipulate voting processes for councillor positions within the ruling party. ALSO READ: Increasing factions in ANC KZN will lead to rise in political killings, Moerane Commission hears He said a key strategy used by unscrupulous members wanting to ensure victory at local level was disinformation. "Sometimes you can tell someone that a meeting is starting in the morning, but you are actually having the meeting in the evening." He said that changing venues at the last minute was also a popular tactic. "You will find that they will say a meeting is in one spot. Thereafter they change the venue but only inform one faction." Use of authority, influence Mchunu added that many chairpersons at local level meetings often used their authority to influence the outcomes of voting processes in meetings by manipulating the numbers so that when lists for councillor positions were compiled, it was not the legitimate results that were used. Mchunu said that many of the meetings also had bouncers in attendance. "The bouncers also come in the form of security companies. They are directed by certain people and they kick out those they do not want in the meetings because they fear it will cause them to lose." RELATED: 'I am okay' – Senzo Mchunu on car shooting rumours He said some leaders also used their influence within the government in meetings. "They also call police saying there are people that need to be [expelled from the meeting]. Depending on your influence with police, you will get those people intimidated or removed." He said when positions within the organisation became available they became a factor for potential violence. ANC provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli was not immediately available for comment.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  