Grace Mugabe (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town – AfriForum has
reportedly said that it won’t be deterred in its case against Zimbabwean First
Lady Grace Mugabe after she maintained in court papers that the young South
African model Gabriella Engels who accused her of assault was the actual aggressor. According to SABC, AfriForum spokesperson Willie Spies said that it was typical of a criminal to blame the
victim for their crime. "I was not surprised to read that she wrote the statement. And it doesn't change our case at all; for that
very reason we believe it is so important that this matter should not be left
to politicians to decide, should not be left to her friends to grant her
immunity. It should be left to the courts to determine the truth and to make
sure that the true events of that evening are determined and that justice runs
its course," Spies was quoted as saying. Reports this week indicated
that Grace's representatives had claimed in court papers that Engels, who accused her of assault was the actual aggressor, as she
allegedly attacked the first lady with a knife while drunk. The court papers denying any wrongdoing
by Grace were submitted on August 17 by Zimbabwean diplomats on behalf of the
first lady, who was granted diplomatic immunity by South Africa despite calls
for her prosecution in the alleged attack on Engels in a Johannesburg hotel
on August 13. She returned to Zimbabwe a week after the alleged assault with
President Robert Mugabe, who had attended a summit of southern African leaders
in Pretoria. 'In  trouble with a drunken young woman' According to the court filing,
Grace went to see her sons in a hotel suite because they were "in trouble
with a drunken young woman". "Upon
her arrival Ms Engels, who was intoxicated, and unhinged, attacked Dr Grace
Mugabe with a knife after she was asked to leave the hotel room. Security was
left with no other option but to remove Ms. Engels from the hotel suite." Mugabe "reserves the right to
press charges of attempted murder" against Engels, the document said. But according to Engels's version of the incident, she was in a hotel
room with mutual friends of Grace's two sons, who lived in Johannesburg, when
the first lady burst into the room and assaulted her. Photos posted on social
media showed a bloody gash to Engels' forehead that she claimed was a result of
the encounter. In 2009, a photographer accused
Grace of beating him up in Hong Kong. While the Zimbabwean president's
outspoken wife has been criticised for a fiery temper and lavish shopping
expeditions, her rising political profile has some asking whether she is maneuvering
to succeed her husband. She recently said that Zimbabwe's ruling party should
restore a constitutional provision stating one of the party's vice presidents
should be a woman, and has publicly challenged her 93-year-old husband to name
a successor. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  