Kimon de Greef A policeman shoots a child during the Hout Bay protest. (Justin Sullivan) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A 14-year-old boy was shot four times during a protest in Hangberg, Hout Bay, last week by riot police. Two rubber bullets entered his mouth and last Wednesday he had surgery to remove one lodged under his tongue. News24 spoke to his mother. Watch.  WATCH Cape Town - The 14-year-old boy shot in the mouth by police during a protest in Hout Bay last week, was discharged from hospital on Tuesday morning and returned home to Imizamo Yethu with his mother, Pinkie. A group of Hangberg residents involved in the recent protest collected the pair from Groote Schuur, where the teen spent six nights after having a rubber bullet surgically removed from beneath his tongue, GroundUp reports. "It’s the least we could do," said Angelo Josephs, whose employer gave the group a lift. Hangberg residents also raised about R900 for the family. The 14-year-old recovered his speech several days ago, but still has a large wound inside his mouth. He was in high spirits outside the hospital. "It doesn’t hurt so much," he said. He was looking forward to resuming skateboarding, his favourite pastime, although his board needs repairs. Pinkie was relieved to be leaving the hospital, after returning home just once during her son’s recovery. She spent most nights sleeping in the trauma ward waiting room or on an armchair in the Ear, Nose & Throat unit where he was moved to after his operation. "I’ve been worrying so much about my younger children in Imizamo Yethu," she said. "My sister is looking after them, but I prefer to be there myself. It isn’t safe, especially at night." She has been disturbed by comments on Facebook stating her son was an orphan. "I’m his mother and I love my children very much," she said. 'How can the police investigate the police?' Donations collected by a local student activist enabled her to buy food and airtime during her stay, as well as travel home by taxi over the weekend. The student also cooked a meal for Pinkie, who is unemployed, and loaned her a blanket and coat. Approximately 30 people had donated money via eWallet, the student said, with a further ten pledging to contribute at the end of the month. "It is difficult to find words for how much that support meant for me," Pinkie said. When the group arrived home in Imizamo Yethu they met Pinkie’s mother, who had travelled by bus from the Eastern Cape. The teen began crying when he saw his grandmother, who looked after him for several years when Pinkie first moved to Cape Town. She will spend at least a week with the family, said Pinkie. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) has opened a case of attempted murder following the shooting, which took place at extremely close range. Pinkie is receiving legal support and intends to lay separate charges this week. "I want to make sure it’s done properly," she said. "How can the police investigate the police?"  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  