Omega Moagi THE South African Council for Educators (Sace) will soon be naming and shaming teachers who have been removed from the teacher’s roll for abusing pupils. This follows reports and videos of teachers beating pupils in schools countrywide circulating in social media, with the most recent being that of KwaZulu-Natal’s Mdlamse High School. The provincial Department of Basic Education also said it was in possession of a video of a principal and two teachers apparently gang raping a pupil. In attempts to curb these abusive acts from reoccurring Sace’s Thembinkosi Ndhlovu said the council has opted to find a way to publicise the names of offenders. Many, including education MEC Panyaza Lesufi and international child advocacy and humanitarian organisation World Vision South Africa, have expressed support to this call. World Vision SA Paula Barnard said in a statement last week the abuse was unacceptable. “We urge all parties involved to swiftly and decisively deal with the perpetrators in question and believe the only way forward is to publish the names of the guilty parties to prevent future acts of violence and sexual misconduct,” said Barnard. In various schools in KwaNzimakwe and Gcilima pupils have said they continue to be beaten by teachers for different reasons. A pupil from Notshutsha Primary School, who asked not to be named, said he was recently struck for being late. “We’re always getting beatings at school. We don’t see it as a big deal when videos of children getting beaten are shared on Facebook. “Although it is not right, it is something that happens all the time in township schools,” said the pupil. A teacher from Mcushwa Junior Secondary School in Jerico near Nositha in Margate said teachers who continue to use corporal punishment need to know where to draw the line. “We use corporal punishment in different ways depending on the teacher. I normally pinch the pupil’s ear when they have done wrong or not completed their homework to teach them discipline. “The method works because it teaches them to refrain from misbehaving, for instance, even if they are misbehaving when they see a particular teacher they stop whatever they are doing because they know the repercussions of their behaviour,” said the teacher. She said there was no need to abuse pupils because children are scared easily. “It doesn’t take much to instil that fear and discipline in a pupil. There is no need to ruthlessly beat a child with a belt or a stick,” she said. In a press statement issued last month the KZN Department of Education condemned corporal punishment and encouraged affected pupils to report these incidents to the department. “There’s a difference between disciplining and punishing‚” the department said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.