Boipelo Mere During the title deed handover are from the left the MEC for Coghsta Alvin Botes, Minister Lindiwe Sisulu, Anna Ramakatsa and her father Barnard, who is a beneficiary.Photo: Boipelo Mere Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Hope was given to the confused home owners of Lerato Park when the Minister of Human Settlements, Lindiwe Sisulu, promised to see to it that their houses are fixed. It seemed like a positive response to their complaints about their new homes, which are developing cracks. According to the residents, lice, mice and rats continue to creep out of the cracks in the walls, which are becoming an embarrassment to them. They were relieved, because their complaints seemed to be falling on deaf ears while the Department of Cooperative Governance has been quiet about their concerns. Sisulu visited the Lerato Park Integrated Housing Project on Tuesday, 12 September, to hand over title deeds to beneficiaries and engage in a public meeting. She promised to allocate money for the houses to be repaired, including the soil. She also made the announcement that everyone was waiting for, which is that the next phase of Lerato Park will go ahead. Sisulu, however, recommended that proper planning be put in place to repair the soil before the next phase of Lerato Park begins. According to her, the lack of sufficient geo-tech specifications are the reason for the cracking houses, since there is a lot of clay in the soil. The minister also urged members of the public to make use of the rent-to-buy scheme. This will allow the residents the opportunity to buy the property at a later stage. Sisulu urged the home owners to leave shacks behind. “Our intention is to move you from informal settlements to descent housing,” she added. In an effort to eradicate informal settlements, she offered to buy the shacks from those who get new houses to enable them to buy furniture for the new houses. “We cannot allow you to get a house, rent it out, and go and live in a shack. “Once we discover that we gave you a house and you rented it out, we will take it back and give it to someone else, who needs it more,” warned Sisulu. Sisulu said that the Northern Cape will be used in a pilot project for the eradication of the informal settlements backlog. This is due to its minimal backlog of a mere 21 000, due to its advantageous population. The backlog can be eradicated through the help of other MECs in the province through coming on board to provide more houses. Funds will also be sourced from other provinces to address the Northern Cape first. Regarding those who depend on the Finance Linked Individual Subsidy Programme (FLISP) to get a house, Sisulu assured women that in an effort to liberate them, go-vernment is minimising the restriction on rules of getting married first or having dependants in order to qualify. “Our priority will be to put women on top of the list because you are the people who look after our children.” She also mentioned that she was there to find a solution to some of the recurring problems in Lerato Park. She urge the beneficiaries to look after their title deeds, as it will play a very important role in their lives. “You can use title deeds to get a loan from the bank, instead of going to a masho-nisa.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  