Nation Nyoka (File, Jackie Clausen, Gallo Images, Sunday Times) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – Police still have no leads on the escape of five inmates from Empangeni Medium Correctional Centre in KwaZulu-Natal in the early hours of Monday morning. The police's Thulani Mdluli told News24 that the awaiting trial prisoners were considered dangerous as they had been arrested for a range of serious crimes including murder, attempted murder and robbery. A would-be escapee, Bonginkosi Olive Nxumalo, was found trapped within the 6m-high barbed wire fence of the correctional facility. He was being held for attempted murder, robbery and possession of an illegal firearm and ammunition. The KwaZulu-Natal department of correctional services confirmed in a statement that a case of escaping from custody had been opened at Empangeni police station after the five escaped through the window of a cell. Mdluli said a preliminary investigation had shown that the window's bars had been forced open and that the inmates had jumped over the barbed wire fence, where Nxumalo got stuck. The details of the escaped inmates are as follows: 1. Mukelani Njabulo Skheleqe Sibiya from Nongoma, Matshamhlophe Reserve, next to Bhobhobho Primary School – arrested for murder and robbery; 2. Sifisokuhle Mfeka from Dokodweni at Ngulule Reserve, next to Thembalihle store – arrested for murder; 3. Siyabonga Mshana Khumalo from Mtubatuba, KwaNkombose Reserve, next to Zamani store – arrested for murder; 4. Dumisani Patrick Ncamphalala from Richards Bay, Mandlazini Reserve, next to Vukuzenzele store – arrested for attempted murder, robbery, and housebreaking; 5. Themba Sipho Dlodlo, from Esikhaleni, Madlankala Reserve next to Maqhama Primary School – arrested for robbery with aggravating circumstances; Members of the public with any information that might lead to the escaped inmates' re-arrest have been urged to contact the police or call Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Police are yet to release identikits. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  