Kailene Pillay, The Witness A man fills up a 20-litre bucket with water from a burst pipe while a truck blocks the driveway and front of a business on Hoosen Haffajee Street. Business owners in the area said they are fed up with the lack of interest in their area from municipal and police authorities.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Business owners on Hoosen Haffajee Street said they have taken a “financial slap in the face” as unruly drivers, whoonga addicts and municipal issues bombard their daily lives. A number of business owners have been in constant contact with Witness Warriors relaying their battle to get their area cleaned up. They said they have been verbally abused and physically threatened by drivers of vehicles that block the parking bays and cause an obstruction to their businesses. They said pedestrians are also left to walk on the road as some trucks climb the pavements to park, damaging the concrete pavers. “We’ve complained for many years now, but nothing has ever been done and with the added worry of the whoonga addicts, our businesses are really threatened,” said one of the business owners. They said some businesses in that area have been in operation for more than 15 years and they had expressed their disappointment in the municipality’s management of the area since they first moved in. They said their complaints usually fall on deaf ears as the municipality and police needed to swoop in on the area and clean it up. The managers and owners of the businesses in the area said that taxi operators added to their woes. “The problem we face with them is that they wash their taxis on the roadside and use water from a burst pipe,” said another business owner. He said Msunduzi municipal workers repaired the burst pipe on four occasions, but shortly after the workers leave, whoonga addicts burst the pipe again. “These guys who continuously break the pipe supply the water at R5 for a 20-litre container, to all the other guys who wash taxis,” he said. “He has become quite good now as he has found a way of making sure it doesn’t leak the way it used to. “He’s basically managed to operate it like a tap, which he and a few of his partners in crime only know how to operate,” he added. The business owner said that nearby, another group of whoonga addicts make money in a similar manner. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  