Mari Hudson Dr Susan Vosloo. (Netwerk24, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - A well-known heart surgeon says she was stopped twice in Durban last Friday evening by members of the eThekwini metro police, threatened with being locked up, and terrorised into paying a bribe, despite not having committed any traffic violations. Dr Susan Vosloo was in Durban to attend the South African Transplant Society's 27th congress, Netwerk24 reported. The first incident was on the M12 just after 19:00. An officer in a metro police car with sirens blaring motioned for her to pull over. He asked her driver's licence and she had to blow into a breathalyser. She knew it would be negative. The officer became aggressive and accused her of driving under the influence. He said he was going to arrest her and that she would have to spend the weekend behind bars, because she would only be able to apply for bail on Monday. READ: Most South Africans pay bribes - survey Bribe And, he said, bail would be at least R1 500. He asked her how much money she had on her. When she said R50, he said it wasn't enough. She eventually gave both the officers R100 each, because she was vulnerable, felt unsafe and they were armed, she said. Later that evening, she wanted to show a friend, Wouter Gildenhuys, where it had happened. When they got there at about 22:30, they saw the same metro car behind a vehicle which had been pulled over. When the two officers saw them, they followed Vosloo and Gildenshuys, their sirens blaring yet again, and motioned to them to pull over. READ: Eight border cops arrested for corruption Yet another breathalyser test followed, which again was negative. The two accused Gildenhuys of drunken driving and wanted to handcuff him. The officers also wanted to search their bags and Vosloo agreed to it, on condition that it be done at a police station. She recognised one of the officers as the one from the first incident. By then Vosloo had phoned her husband in Cape Town and he could hear parts of the conversation. One of the officers shouted at her, saying she was guilty of obstruction of justice, and also accused Gildenhuys of being a racist. They both denied this.  Vosloo and Gildenhuys reported the incidents to the Durban police the following day. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  