Kaveel Singh Chatsworth residents, outside the Chatsworth Magistrate's court, call for bail to be denied for the three men accused or murdering retired Durban principal Gona Pillay. (Kaveel Singh, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban - The three men accused or murdering retired Durban principal Gona Pillay appeared nonchalant on Tuesday as a packed court gallery - filled mainly with angry Chatsworth residents - looked on. The well dressed trio - cousins Basil and Braveman Underhill, and Fredboy Msomi - made a brief appearance in the Chatsworth Magistrate's court, where, hours earlier, a large group of residents had gathered outside to demand that bail be denied. READ: Gauteng deputy principal shot dead in his school office The court heard that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) would oppose bail. Their reasons would be heard at the formal bail hearing next week. The matter was postponed to October 3. Among the first arrests was Basil Underhill, a 24-year-old Pam Golding Properties intern, who was charged with house robbery, murder and attempted murder. Police nabbed his cousin Braveman on Monday night. It is unclear when Msomi was arrested. A fourth accused was still being sought by police. Authorities previously said they were "hot on the heels" of more suspects. 'She was a wonderful person' Pillay, 63, was stabbed to death last Wednesday evening after four men, posing as potential property buyers, attacked her and her husband Logie, also a former principal. The Pillays had put their house on the market. The pensioner was stabbed several times and died in her Chatsworth home, while her husband, who was also stabbed, is in critical condition in hospital. READ: Chatsworth residents oppose bail for ex-principal's suspected killer Chairperson of the Bayview Community Policing Forum Brandon Pillay said police were expected to arrest the last accused on Tuesday or Wednesday. "We hope that, by their bail hearing next week, the last suspect will also appear." Clear calls for no bail in the murder of Gona Pillay, a prominent retired Chatsworth principal. @News24 pic.twitter.com/o9i9Ohst8b Pillay added that residents were out in their numbers because they were "tired of crime". Another resident Eugene Ishwarlall said: "The community of Chatsworth are tired of these types of crimes. We are here to make a statement and say, they must not get bail. "Mrs Pillay was a stern and well respected member of our society. She was a wonderful person. For our community to lose someone like her is truly a sad affair." 'Heinous crime committed by cowards' Another resident, who did not want to be named, said: "To kill her in that manner, and also critically injure her husband, is behaving like an animal." Pam Golding CEO Andrew Golding has distanced the property group from its employee. "Needless to say, we are shocked and deeply saddened at this terrible news. Our deepest condolences will be extended to the family, friends and community associated with the victims of this awful event."  Golding said he would keep the public informed of "any progress in this matter, as and when further information becomes available". eThekwini Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer welcomed the arrests and denounced the attack on the couple. "This killing was a heinous crime committed by cowards, targeting an elderly couple. When I was alerted to this incident, I was shocked. Why would someone enter a home under false pretenses to steal but [then] kill an innocent person in the process?"   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  