Shanaaz Prince, YOU PHOTO: Gallo Images/Getty Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An incident at school left a 12-year-old
girl so devastated she took her own life, according to reports. Her lifeless body was discovered on
Thursday after she jumped off her neighbour’s
terrace in the early hours of the morning, India
Today reports. The grade 7 pupil at Senthil Nagar School
in the residential area of Senthil Nagar in Palayamkottai Town, Southern India was
left humiliated after her menstrual blood leaked through her school uniform,
staining her clothes and the seat that she was sitting on. Embarrassed, she asked her teacher for
permission to go to the bathroom. But the teacher shouted at her in front of
the entire class for not placing her sanitary towel properly. As a result, the youngster leapt from her neighbour’s
balcony at 3am the next morning. Her parents said they had no idea why their
daughter would take her own life, until reading the note she’d left behind,
detailing how her teacher had “tortured” her. Indian media reported her mother as saying
the female teacher had made the horrified girl show the stain to the class,
according to The
Guardian. “The teacher didn’t even take into account
that there were boys in the class,” the devastated mom is quoted as saying. “She
asked my daughter to lift up the top of her salwar kameez [tunic worn over
trousers] and then gave her a duster cloth to use as a pad.” News around the story sparked protest
action from parents and pupils alike who were angered by the behaviour of the teacher in question. The
protests required police intervention. The teacher has been charged with aiding
suicide at the private school, NDTV
reports, although no arrests have been made yet. “Right
now we’re hearing different versions. Only after the completion of a probe will
we have clarity,” was a statement made by a senior police spokesperson. Sources: The
Guardian, Metro
UK, NDTV,
India
Today  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  