Kaveel Singh Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – The Pietermaritzburg High Court ruling that delegitimised the ANC’s KwaZulu-Natal  conference in 2015 shows the party is consumed by battles for position and greed, claimed the DA in the province. "[They are] a party with people who are greedy for positions. A party that is like a snake eating its own tail, divided and fractured and focused on internal battles and access to public money, rather than on delivery to the people of KZN," DA provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango said on Tuesday. Mncwango said the ANC could not be trusted. Moral high ground "The governing party has completely lost its moral foundation and is not reliable to run the government of this province, let alone the country." ANC spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli said the DA had no plan to win over power from the ANC in the province and anywhere else in the country. "That is why they will always look for negative things". He said ideally an opposition party should be working on its own programme and plans and not be consumed by the internal issues of the ANC. The High Court on Tuesday ruled that the results of the ANC KZN 8th provincial elective conference in November 2015 were unlawful. READ: ANC 2015 KZN election unlawful - court ANC councillor Lawrence Dube and four others brought the case against the ANC in May 2016. The ANC members challenged the results of the conference that saw incumbent chairperson Sihle Zikalala replacing former premier Senzo Mchunu. The ANC has said it will likely challenge the ruling in a higher court. Dube, however, called for the provincial executive to exit office immediately. "I would like to see this [provincial executive committee] out as of today. They are unlawful. I want the [national executive committee] to act in a justifiable respectable way and do what they are supposed to do," he told News24 shortly after court proceedings concluded in Pietermaritzburg. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  