(Cosatu via Twitter) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - SAA cancels flights across six routes, an HIV patient died after being too afraid to speak to nurses, The Script is coming to SA and we visit Ndebele artist Esther Mahlangu at her home.   Here is a list of some of  our top stories: Join our march against 'elite predator' Zuma - SACP, Cosatu Cosatu and the SACP have called on workers, ANC supporters, and even Cabinet members, to join their march against state capture and President Jacob Zuma. Click here for the full story Mantashe has every right to back Ramaphosa for president - Mthembu ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu has defended secretary general Gwede Mantashe's right to pronounce on his preferred candidate to replace President Jacob Zuma as party president. Read Court freezes mine rehab billions from Gupta-owned mines Anti-corruption advocacy group OUTA has won an urgent interim interdict to freeze some R1.75bn in mine rehabilitation funds from two Gupta-owned coal mines. More The Script returning to SA! The Script will be returning to South Africa in support of their latest album, Freedom Child. They will be performing in Cape Town on 2 May 2018 at Grand Arena, GrandWest and 4 May 2018 in Pretoria at the Sun Arena at Time Square. Read more on Channel24                                                           The Script. (Supplied) SAA cancels flights across six routes South African Airways has confirmed it will cancel flights on six of its regional destinations due to "operational reasons". Traveller24 has all the details Is the Premier League ditching Zuma? Zuma’s battles are beginning to weigh on his supporters, who are starting to bargain hard and willing to consider a unity candidate, as long as that gives them a central role. Read this column by Ralph Mathekga Chiefs mum on Motaung's R500k unpaid car instalments Kaizer Chiefs boss Bobby Motaung is allegedly set to lose his R3.2m Bentley Continental GT to the bank. More on Sport24 HIV patients die after being too afraid to speak to nurses A 22-year-old man recently died after stopping his antiretroviral treatment because he mistakenly thought he had been given the wrong medication. Health24 has the full story Mugabe warns Trump: No nation should be allowed to bully others Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has reportedly warned President Donald Trump that no country should monopolise ownership of nuclear weapons after the US leader threatened to "totally destroy" North Korea. Full story Esther Mahlangu: Ndebele art showed me the world "I want to be remembered for my work; for my paintings, and for the many places my art has taken me," says Heritage icon and Ndebele artist Esther Mahlangu. Watch  Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  