Jeanette Chabalala ANC treasurer general Zweli Mkhize. (City Press) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The ANC should work to ensure that it eliminates factions and divisions, the party's treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize said on Friday.  "I think the ANC needs unity and so if all our leaders can work together in building unity, I think that will help the organisation. Unity is the foundation on which the ANC was built and it has to be maintained at all times," said Mkhize.  He was speaking on the sidelines of the Black Business Council summit in Sandton. ALSO READ: You can't preach 'unity' if you contest for ANC leadership - Cosatu deputy president "We are dealing with the need to defeat factionalism and stop divisions. I think that it is a good aspiration for the organisation to look forward to a united conference and a conference where we should deliver a leadership that will be united and there are no suggestions of any splits or anything like that.  "I think that unity is a very important issue for the organisation," said Mkhize.  He said the upcoming elective conference in December should be used as an opportunity to renew the organisation.  'More needs to be done'  Mkhize, who has thrown his hat in the ring for the party's presidency, said the economy needed to deliver growth, jobs and radical economic transformation.  "It [radical economic transformation] is not a construct of [PR company] Bell Pottinger or an excuse to empower certain families or even to be captured by some," he said.  He told those in attendance that "in terms of unemployment, poverty and inequality, we are seeing there is a lot more that needs to be done".  Mkhize also said there should be transformation in the boardrooms of companies in the country, adding that the Johannesburg Stock Exchange was made up of mostly foreign- and white-owned companies while only 21% were black.  "That tells you that we have a long way to go," he said.  The majority of managerial positions were not held by women and black people and those who became CEOs only rose to those positions after considerable periods of time, Mkhize said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  