Andre Cruywagen Milano Ladies United caused a big upset by beating Ikamva FC 2-0 in a Sasol Safa Cape Town regional women’s league second round match at the Grassy Park sports complex on Saturday. Milano fared better this time around and took the upper hand on home soil. The visitors lacked determination after their strikers wasted several opportunities.  Chelsea Petersen, the hosts’ lethal front striker, scored after 27 minutes when they hammered a powerful volley into the net. The visitors’ resistance was too weak for Milano. Meshay Paulse, the agile Milano midfielder, strengthened her team’s chances in the second half with a superb goal. Spurs Ladies defeated Dangerous Heroes 3-1 in their second round match at the Philippi sports field on Friday night. Spurs played with a winning combination which frustrated the inconsistent hosts.  Abigail Petersen, the front striker for Spurs, gave them an early lead with her quick movements. The hosts failed to attack and it allowed the visitors to run amok. Celeste Jansen’s dedication paid off when she boosted her team’s performance with a brilliant goal minutes before half-time. At the start of the second half, Dangerous Heroes bounced back and Sisipho Mlomo scored for them. Spur soon changed their game strategy and Rhezanne Marinius sealed the victory for Spurs, who are third on the log. Santos Ladies demolished Maties 4-1 in their second round match at Lentelus sports ground on Saturday. Santos put down their stamp of authority early on in the game when the students couldn’t settle in. Santos were in command of the game and took dominance after Chantay Norris gave them an early advantage. The visitors played with admiration while Maties struggled to get their act together. Thanks to her agile footwork and outstanding composure, Miche Minnies scored in the 46th minute.  With her brace of goals, Lucinda Croy steered the game away from the hosts, while Janice Smith scored for Maties.  RV United beat the lacklustre Manenberg Ladies 13-0 in their encounter at Lingelethu Stadium on Saturday. Manenberg were easy opponents for the visiting team as they crumbled under a skilful attack.  Chantal Kana (4), Lihle Qokela (2), Andiiwa Ndamane (2), Nikelwa Mdemka (2) ,Sive Khenke, Happiness Gutshwa and Ashley Booth scored for RV United. Regional women’s leagueLog leaders UCT narrowly beat Winnies Ladies 1-0 in a hard-fought Safa Cape Town regional women’s league second round match at Gugulethu Stadium on Saturday.  UCT encountered a severe attack by Winnies and had to adjust their tactics. The hosts played with vigour until the final whistle, but their strikers couldn’t score from vital chances.  With three games remaining, it’s all systems go for UCT to be crowned league champions. Nina Woermann, the utility centre-back player, scored the winning goal to break the deadlock. Atlantis Leeds Ladies defeated Phoenix Spurs Ladies 1-0 at Robinvale sports complex on Saturday. The hosts kept the fort while the visiting strikers couldn’t find the net.  Janice Alexander scored the winning goal for her team.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  