Nation Nyoka High Court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The sentencing of the second balaclava rapist, Sinja Robin Mabitsela, has been postponed for Judge Carla van Veenendaal to read through the victim impact statements of six men. The South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg heard on Tuesday that sentencing proceedings would be moved to November 16. Prosecutor Michelle Bayat told News24 that they had submitted additional reports, but the judge felt that it was important to take into account the experiences of the six men who had also gone through a terrible ordeal when compelled to rape their partners at gunpoint by the balaclava rapists. The men have been called the "balaclava rapists" in the media because they had worn balaclavas over their faces when raping their victims. "It is time to acknowledge the men who were also victimised by these traumatic events," said Van Veenendaal to Bayat. Van Veenendaal requested that probation officers meet with the six men and put together victim impact reports. The 38-year-old Mabitsela is charged with 23 counts of rape, six counts of compelled rape, 18 counts of armed robbery, three counts of sexual assault, two counts of kidnapping, and a count of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. He has a previous unrelated conviction. He was found guilty in March this year. Read the article here. Bayat has suggested life imprisonment for the rapes, including the rape of an underage girl, and a 15-year minimum sentence for the other counts. "We trust that the new evidence will be taken into account. Our organisation wants multiple life sentences to reflect the horror of their crimes," said Women and Men Against Child Abuse’s Kidz Clinic in a statement. The organisation said it hoped that the sentence would send a strong message to potential perpetrators. Mabitsela operated with a partner - Josias Xaniseka Mkansi, 50. They raped, robbed, and forced men to rape their partners in Alexandra, Johannesburg, between 2007 and 2015. They were caught in 2015. Mkansi appeared for pre-sentencing in the South Gauteng High Court earlier in September on 16 counts of rape and 11 counts of armed robbery. His sentencing has been postponed to October 3.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  