James de VilliersCape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town's 'rainy season' has for the most part, come and gone and the City's major dams have a collective yield of 37.2% water storage. City officials had been banking on winter rains to alleviate the water crisis. Just how much rain has fallen? Watch. WATCHCape Town - City of Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille says two-minute showers, doing laundry once a week and leaving dishes in the sink help keep her personal consumption below 90l a day.&nbsp;In a tweet on Wednesday De Lille revealed the daily average water consumption of her household in Pinelands.&nbsp;"Capetonians challenged me to share my water bill. Here it is: We're three people and four dogs at home, using 267l per day. Let's #ThinkWaterCT," De Lille tweeted. In August, the City of Cape Town introduced level 5 water restrictions whose aim is to limit water consumption to 87l per person per day.&nbsp;READ: Green energy conference focuses on SA climate, waterWhen De Lille was asked by a Twitter user why her water consumption was above the city's target she replied: My family and I are working to reduce our water use further. I hope you are too."Her spokesperson Zara Nicholson told News24 that the mayor stopped filling her swimming pool early in 2016 and only washes her vehicles with waterless carwash products.&nbsp;The mayor uses the city's water calculator app to calculate her daily consumption and reduce it where necessary, Nicholson said.&nbsp;"The mayor wants to encourage people in houses and people in their workplaces to see who can save the most water and also save them money with a very low water bill by using this application."READ: Western Cape R295m 'day zero' water plan kicks inFines in the pipelineFacebook users praised the mayor's honesty about her water consumption.Sarah-Kim Boyd said: "Everyone could do better if they were judged by other people's standards. She's making a difference with the amount she uses and that's okay. I think she's brave for sharing it."Andrea Lachner said De Lille's consumption could definitely be lower.&nbsp;"However, I think this is being honest rather than posting a MUCH lower usage," Lachner commented on the Water Shedding Western Cape Facebook group.&nbsp;Bryan Bruton questioned whether De Lille would be labelled a water abuser and penalised accordingly for using 2l more than the target. Capetonians challenged me to share my water bill. Here it is. We're 3 people &amp; 4 dogs at home, using 267litres per day. Let's #ThinkWaterCT pic.twitter.com/QtgxugABm6On Monday, the city said it would be fining domestic users who consistently use more than 20 000l per month.&nbsp;The commercial sector, where water usage has not declined, must also bring consumption down by 20% year-on-year or face penalties, mayoral committee member for water and waste services&nbsp;Xanthea Limberg said in a statement.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.