Nation Nyoka SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Police are still searching for a bogus doctor who fled his surgery through the back door during a raid in Vereeniging on Tuesday.His assistant was caught in the bathroom and questioned by authorities. Simon Zwane of the Road Traffic Management Corporation told News24 that the suspect had been charging "patients" R100 for medical certificates proving their fitness to drive. "He would make it appear as though the patients had gone through thorough medical exams, passing them off as fit and healthy. The patients would then take the medical certificates and use them to apply for public driver's permits," he said.  READ: Man gets stiffed for penis enlargement by bogus doctor Zwane explained that some patients passed eye tests, and some were cleared of diabetes and high blood pressure even though they had not undergone any medical examinations.  "This is the first step to getting to the corrupt officials who are involved in the unlawful issuing of public driver's permits and licences, which is what Operation Recall is aimed at," Zwane said. Five bogus doctors have been arrested in Gauteng since the start of Operation Recall in September. The five doctors have appeared in various courts across the province and are currently out on bail, Zwane said. He added that the doctors, who would sometimes dispense medication, were not registered with the Health Professions Council of South Africa. "Investigations have shown that the doctors identified as bogus are mostly foreign nationals who use the practice number of a registered local doctor to run unlawful medical practices," said Zwane in a statement. He said he was confident that they would catch the doctor who had fled from authorities.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  