A 30-YEAR-OLD suspect was fatally wounded in a shoot-out with police last Wednesday in the KwaNyamazane area.  KZN SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a second suspect was injured during the exchange and was taken to hospital.  The incident occurred when police were following up on information about a robbery that took place in the Bisley area at 2pm on the Wednesday.  “The complainant was closing her residential gate in Bisley when she was approached by a group of unknown men who produced firearms and forced her inside the house.    “At gunpoint the suspects robbed her of a laptop, cellphone and a white Peugeot, before fleeing the scene.” Zwane said the SAPS were alerted about the incident and followed up on the information, which led them to the KwaNyamazane area.  “The vehicle was spotted in the vicinity of KwaNyamazane. When police attempted to intercept the stolen vehicle, the suspects opened fire on police officers. Police retaliated and a 30-year-old man was fatally wounded while another was injured during the shoot-out.”  Zwane said the injured suspect was taken to hospital where he remains under police guard.  “A third suspect managed to flee the scene on foot during the shoot-out. Charges of house robbery, attempted murder and inquest are being investigated by Alexandra Road SAPS. The suspect [in hospital] will appear in court once discharged,” he said.  The KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa condemned the attack on law enforcers.  “It has become the norm for criminals to open fire on police officers to avoid arrest. Our police officers will defend their lives and those of ordinary citizens if they are under threat. We are following all leads to capture the suspect that managed to escape arrest,” he said. When police attempted to intercept the stolen vehicle, the suspects opened fire on police officers. Police retaliated and a 30-year-old man was fatally wounded while another was injured during the shoot-out. A third suspect managed to flee the scene on foot during the shoot-out. Charges of house robbery, attempted murder and inquest are being investigated by Alexandra Road SAPS 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  