Bonolo Sekudu Former blessee Jackie Phamotse  writes a book about her experience 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      If
you want to be blessed you might consider praying to God for a blessing because
blessers or sugar daddies aren’t just about sprinkling a lavish lifestyle over
your life.  HOW
THE BLESSEE LIFE DESTROYED HER This
is all so familiar for former model and ‘blessee’, Jackie Phamotse who survived
rape, depression, emotional and mental abuse at the hands of a ‘blesser’.
Today, she is the brand strategist for energy drink, Mofaya and a published
author. Her new book titled BARE she shares
how she was trapped in the hands of a powerful and rich man who gave her access
to the life of luxury but destroyed her emotionally and mentally. “I was
trapped and at times I would not know how to leave because leaving him meant
that I was going to lose everything he gave me,” she says.  SHARING
HER STORY WITH YOUNG GIRLS Jackie
has dedicated her book to the late Karabo Mokoena who was allegedly suffered
abuse from her boyfriend and as a result ended up dead. “All I want is to share
my story with young girls because many of them are trapped in abusive
relationships at the expense of luxurious lifestyles,” she says. She says not only are young girls supposed to
read the book but that parents should also read so that they get a better
perspective of the pressures girls go through. “Many parents would be shocked
to find out what they children are pressured into and they need to start having
conversations with their children,” she says.  BLESSERS
ARE NOT WHAT THEY PORTRAY The
book has been received a nod of approval from South Africa’s prominent people
such as a man who has raised his hand for the presidency, Dr Matthews Phosa who
said: “The future of our literature is in the book.” According to Jackie while
‘blessers’ might on the surface look like powerful and confident and loving men
they are the opposite. “They are possessive, socially awkward, they have low
self-esteems and have sexual problems,” she says.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  