Jeanette Chabalala Forensic investigator Paul O'Sullivan. (Mpho Raborife, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Forensic investigator Paul O'Sullivan has denied allegations that he threatened, intimidated or kidnapped Cora van der Merwe from her offices at law firm Ronald Bobroff & Partners Incorporated in October last year.  O'Sullivan and Melissa Naidu appeared in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges of kidnapping, intimidation and extortion. During his evidence-in-chief, O'Sullivan said during his investigation he found that Van der Merwe was leaking company information to then Moneyweb journalist Tony Beamish.  O'Sullivan and Melissa Naidu allegedly took Van der Merwe from her offices to obtain a statement about a leak of documents from the company. His lawyer Advocate Willie Vermeulen SC, asked if O'Sullivan had assaulted or caused Van der Merwe any damage.  "Absolutely not," he replied.  'She knew exactly who I was' O'Sullivan also said the allegations of kidnapping were "completely false".  "The allegations are completely fabricated," he said.  O'Sullivan also told the court that when they went to Van der Merwe's offices they introduced themselves.  "She knew exactly who I was," he said.  He said he only asked for the meeting to move to his offices because he remembered he had a doctor's appointment.  He also denied allegations that during their meeting he threatened Van der Merwe with jail time and that she wouldn't see her children again.   Application for case's dismissal News24 previously reported that the leak eventually led to massive fraud being uncovered in the law firm, the Bobroffs fleeing to Australia and finally being disbarred from practising law in this country. Van der Merwe never revealed any of this to O'Sullivan or Naidu, who were executing their mandate as appointed by Darren Bobroff. This was despite her stating she had already made "disclosures in terms of the Protected Disclosures Act" to Beamish and an advocate, Schalk van der Sandt. In their court submissions, O'Sullivan and Naidu said they regarded the case as malicious prosecution. The defence applied for the case to be dismissed, saying that Van der Merwe contradicted herself under cross-examination. During his testimony, O'Sullivan said Van der Merwe had said she never met Beamish, however as the interview progressed she admitted that she knew him.  "It was only after she had made submissions that I told her she could be charged," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  