Jenni Evans A MyCiTi burns as a result of the taxi protest in Cape Town. (Kenny Africa) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - A MyCiTi bus was torched on the N2 near Delft, about 29km east of the Cape Town CBD on Monday, during a taxi strike. City officials have been trying to keep up with road blockages and commuter delays resulting from the strike. At least one woman was injured when a Golden Arrow bus was stoned in a separate incident in Delft, according to an eyewitness. Are you being affected by the taxi strike? Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos. Speaking on condition of anonymity, the eyewitness said he had not seen how the woman got injured, but that shortly after she was taken off the bus, someone set it alight. Provincial traffic chief Kenny Africa said the R300 between the Stellenbosch Arterial and Stock Road was closed to traffic due to unrest. READ: #TaxiStrike hits Cape Town public transport No sooner had that road been reopened, than the N2 between Mew Way and Borcherds Quarry roads was closed due to unrest. Earlier, City of Cape Town spokesperson Richard Coleman said a MyCiTi bus had gone up in flames on the N2. It was not clear yet if there were injuries in that incident. Trains operating Taxi association representatives were in a meeting with Donald Grant, the MEC for transport and public works, on Monday. Grant's spokesperson said details of the meeting could be released later. READ: Flames, rubber bullets mark Cape Town #TaxiStrike Although Metrorail services were hampered by four trains being cancelled because staff could not get to work due to the taxi strike, trains would operate in all areas, said spokesperson Riana Scott. Other roads that had been affected included the N7 between the Plattekloof and Potsdam turnoffs, and police were monitoring the situation in Du Noon, near Blouberg 18km north of the CBD, after rubber bullets and tear gas were fired on Monday morning when buses and police vehicles were stoned. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  