By Derrick Spies, Correspondent Mongameli Bobani in court after the case was dismissed with costs. (Derrick Spies, News24 Correspondent) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Port Elizabeth – Axed deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani was upbeat, despite having his application to be reinstated struck from the roll in the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth on Tuesday. Addressing the media after the decision, Bobani said he would be refiling his application as the "truth must prevail". Bobani said he would still be attending the council meeting on Thursday, as even though he was no longer deputy mayor, he was still an elected councillor.  "I am a councillor; I will be in council on Thursday," he said. READ: Bobani: Urgent application struck from roll with costs Hugs and kisses in court Before court proceedings began, Bobani, who was sitting in the front row, got up and embraced Patriotic Alliance councillor, Marlon Daniels and tried to kiss him, as he was walking past.  Questioned about it afterwards, Bobani said he had no feelings of animosity towards Daniels or any of the other councillors. Daniels said that he had been surprised by Bobani's affections shown towards him. "I was taken by surprise really when he grabbed me, hugged me and kissed me, but don't forget, Judas also kissed Jesus." Daniels, who brought the motion of no confidence against Bobani - which led to the deputy mayors axing last month, said he was pleased with the outcome from today's court proceedings. "We put our trust in the court of law and if it is that we were in the wrong, then the court must rule against us, and the reverse also applies. If we have done what we were supposed to do, then the court must rule in our favour." "I am not surprised by the ruling of Judge [Dayalin] Chetty this morning," he said. ANC shows support for Bobani ANC caucus leader for Nelson Mandela Bay, Bicks Ndoni, who was present to show support for Bobani said they would now challenge the proceedings at a political level through council. "By and large this is a political matter. The court has ruled that the matter is not urgent so we must pursue this matter on a political level," he said. Ndoni said the ANC would be present at Thursday's council meeting, contrary to rumours that the opposition parties were planning a stay away. With the removal of Bobani, and subsequent loss of the UDM support in the Metro, the coalition, which now includes the PA, currently only has 60 seats in council.  Should the other parties stay away, the municipality will not be able to reach a quorum of 61 councillors, and would not be able to proceed. Ndoni said they would be in council to discuss certain matters, but should issues be raised that they did not agree with, nothing would stop them from walking out, as they had done during the vote of no confidence against Bobani in the last sitting.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  