PHOTO: SuppliedIn the tent set up at the the open day (from left) Lindela Ntombela, Kathryn Olive (student nurse) and Salim Aziz (Save Supermarket - Howick) on Saturday.  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     AS part of their postgraduate course in primary health care, a group of student nurses at the Durban University of Technology, Kathryn Olive, Nondumiso Khumalo, Thobile Mbhele, Nozipho Mjwara and Bongekile Khumalo, were required to run an open day community development project. The student nurses then identified a home for the elderly in Mpophomeni where their project was held on Saturday, August 26. “We hosted 50 elderly people for a morning of health education and health monitoring with entertainment and refreshments for them,” said Olive­. She said on the day a sponsor pledged to assist the home with building material for the expansion. Olive said the home runs on a small budget and its management team is working to ensure it is granted non-profit organisation status. The home co-ordinator, Mrs Ntombela, thanked the student nurses.  “I cried with joy when the announcement was made that we would receive assistance to extend our building. I really did not expect that.”  She said Save Supermarket - Howick donated food vouchers to the elderly and the area ward councillor said efforts­ will be made by the municipality to identify a plot of land where a larger­ and more adequate home and health facility for the elderly can be built. Andy Wood from Cost 2 Build, a company that is assisting with the expansion, said they and Polyform, had raised R100 000 out of an estimated R400 000 that will be needed for the expansion. “Currently we are trying to collect more money for the expansion of the home. We have a pledge form that we hand out to businesses and the community who are willing to help with covering the balance,” Wood said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  