Mbongiseni Maseko Luvuyo Nibe founder of Sk8tc Extreme Sport, and some of the children who ride skateboard, on Monday, in KTC.PHOTOS: Mbongiseni Maseko Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Skateboarders come in drips and drabs in the townships, so when Luvuyo Nibe introduced it in KTC, local youth took to the recreational sport like a sliding from high dunes. Nibe, 38, said he is on a great mission to prevent youth from sliding into social ills like gangsterism, drugs and other delinquent behaviour. Nibe reckons once the youth are presented with options, the rest will be history. Nibe started the project, named Sk8tc Extreme Sport, after he observing that lack of safety measurers could lead to fatalities. “I witnessed some riding individually on the streets, in September.” He started with five children, both boys and girls, between the ages of 6 and 15. There are now over 30 children in the area alone who have since joined and the number is growing. “I first wanted to teach them about the safety as they were riding on the streets. I then noticed that they also needed to be taught tricks of riding skateboard. The aim is to teach them discipline and to be able to live among their peers without getting involved in fights and gangsterism. Skateboard riding is not so common in townships, but the children are gradually getting the hang for the sport.” Challenges include lack of adequate skateboards, helmets and other safety equipment. “We share very few skateboards here so we appeal to anyone who can help us. Our dream is to have a skateboard park in the area where children would ride freely and be safe. We are also planning to introduce BMX riding and rollerblades in future. We will be able to identify children who have problems that they cannot share with their parents when we are with them,” he added. Maleho Mosieleng, 14, a member of the team, said he started riding skateboard two years ago. “My cousin (Brenden Jelashe) borrowed me his skateboard because he also has bicycle. That is when the love started. It teaches me discipline. I practise a lot to learn new tricks. It is good for stimulating my mind as well and teaches me communication skills with my peers,” Mosieleng said. He added that he was planning to study towards a career in Information Technology. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  