Selloane Khalane An ANC Youth League member in the Free State, Pule Phetoane, is accused of scamming desperate job seekers by allegedly selling jobs supposedly available from the Mangaung Metro. He allegedly charged R4 000 for these positions. Those allegedly scammed by the Ward 13 chairperson of the ANC Youth League in Bloemfontein say he collected bribes from more than 90 people in exchange for employment at the cash-strapped municipality. Lebogang Sethlabi (31) from Thaba Nchu is one of the victims allegedly conned by Phetoane. Sethlabi said he paid Phetoane R700 as a deposit for a job in the Mangaung Metro. “But the employment never materialised,” said Sethlabi. He said the balance, R3 300, was to be paid after he began to work at the embattled Bloemfontein municipality. Setlhabi, a former security guard, alleges that Phetoane promised him a post in the law enforcement department at the metro in June 2016. “I gave him the deposit money and my curriculum vitae (CV), but he never delivered on his promise.” Desperate for a better job, Setlhabi alleges Phetoane advised him to quit his job after paying the deposit. “I quit my security job, because Phetoane said I would resume work at the metro in July 2016,” Setlhabi said. However, three months passed with Setlhabi still waiting and unemployed. Phetoane allegedly told desperate job seekers that the Mangaung Metro mayor, Olly Mlamleli, was refusing to sign appointment letters. Noxolo Kubanca, another job seeker accusing Phetoane of conning her, said she had paid, desperate to put food on the table for her family. “We are desperate, we just want to feed our children,” she said. The two alleged victims say the police have refused to open a case against Phetoane, citing insufficient evidence. On Monday (03/04), Phetoane hung up the phone when asked about the allegations. Thabo Meeko, ANC spokesperson in the Free State, has urged people allegedly conned by Phetoane to lodge criminal charges against him. Qondile Khedama, Mangaung Metro spokesperson, said the matter had been brought to the attention of both the executive mayor and city manager. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  