Jeanette Chabalala, News24 A bullet casing. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - A motorcyclist involved in a road rage altercation in Randburg three years ago died less than five minutes after he was shot, the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg heard on Friday. Douglas Pearce collapsed a few seconds to three minutes once he had been shot in the upper left arm, State pathologist Dr Simbarashe Chikwava testified. He conducted the post-mortem on Pearce. He explained that Meekahaefele Masooa, who is on trial for Pearce's murder, fired two shots on the day, and that the first one was the fatal one. Pearce, 39, was killed on Malibongwe Drive, Johannesburg, on February 14, 2014. He was on his motorbike when he became involved in an argument with Masooa. Both men pulled over and continued their confrontation. Self-defence claim During Masooa's bail application in 2014, it emerged that both men carried firearms. Mosooa claims he acted in self-defence after Pearce confronted him. "He shouted at me, pointed the middle finger at me. I don't know why he did that," he said at the time. Pearce stopped and allegedly pointed a firearm at him. Masooa said he realised he was in danger and drew his gun to defend himself. "I had no intention to kill him. I realise the seriousness of the offence, but I acted within legal boundaries." Pearce's family sat in the court's public gallery on Friday morning as Chikwava gave evidence for the second day. He said Masooa fired two shots, one from a distance after getting out of his car, and a second one when the two men wrestled. The first one hit him in the shoulder and could have resulted in his death. Prosecutor Arveena Persad read out evidence from Masooa which stated that Pearce was still moving about five to seven minutes after being shot, when a Johannesburg Metro Police officer arrived on the scene. "My Lord, death is a process, it is not an event," Chikwava replied. "I would have expected him to have lost mental function, which we scientifically call brain damage." The trial continues. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  