Nosipho Mkhize ACCUSED sexaholic and alleged rapist, 53-year-old Pastor Tim Omotoso of Jesus Dominion International Church in Durban, who sexually molested girls, some as young as 14 at his mansion in Umhlanga was arrested by the Hawks on April 20, in Port Elizabeth while on the run. He appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate s Court on April 21 charged with human trafficking, among other charges. He remains in custody until his next court appearance, which is yet to be disclosed. Cutting Edge on SABC 1 broadcast a documentary where anonymous victims were interviewed and explained what went on in his mansion.One of the girls, a church choir member, said the pastor only chose beautiful girls who lived with a single mother because Omotoso was intimidated by girls who had fathers. When I first went to the church all I wanted to do was sing and go far in my music career. One of the church women approached me regarding an offer to live at the pastor s house where she said he would pay for all my needs and take me to far places . One day I was summoned to his bedroom. When I entered his room it was dark. He told me to relax and asked me to massage his feet. I thought maybe he was tired because his is always busy. He then told me to massage him all over his body, he took ointment and told me to massage his private parts. I was so uncomfortable about the whole situation, but he told me to relax, he then made me perform oral sex on him. I don t know what happened next but he slept [had sex] with me. Another anonymous congregant said: The pastor stole my dreams and dignity - he had a way of luring us. When the incident happened the first time I was shocked and confused. He called me to his room to massage his feet. He then told me to massage him all over his body. He then took ointment and told me to massage his private parts. He said I must join him in bed but when I realised he was naked I refused. He got angry and called one of the sister congregants. The sister told me this was meant to be, God wanted me to sleep with the pastor in order for me to connect directly with God, so I eventually slept [had sex] with him. Omotoso used the same modus operandi when luring the girls. He would allegedly ask them to massage his feet, then ask them to use ointment and massage his genitals then eventually convince them that God told him to sleep with them. Unfortunately, the girls, who were on a mission to seek God in their lives, believed him. It is alleged that many of them dropped out because Omotoso convinced them they were not destined for school, but God had big plans for them like opening a business and becoming rich. Pinetown Fever reporter, Nosipho Mkhize, asked people what they thought about the situation. Nonhlanhla Sithole said: He calls himself a man of God but he works for the devil. He must rot in jail. I can t believe he has been doing this for such a long time and no one had said anything about it. Claire Peters said: Police should now raid and check all churches because many of them operate illegally and most of these pastors are not qualified. It s sad that these young girls had to go through something so horrific. Email your views to nosipho. mkhize@media24.com 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.