Fever Reporter PHOTO: suppliedTwo of the three taxis involved in the accident that claimed 10 lives. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories AN accident on Monday night involving three minibus taxis on the N2 in Southport claimed 10 lives, three of whom were children. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Zandra Wiid said in her accident report that two of the taxis were allegedly travelling south and another was travelling north when the collision occurred. Nine people, three of whom were children, died and nine others were taken to hospital for treatment. One driver was among the deceased. One taxi driver was injured, the third driver did not sustain injuries. The taxis will be subjected to a mechanical investigation as well, said Wiid. She said a culpable homicide docket is being investigated and no formal identification of the deceased has been done.Ray Nkonyeni Municipality Mayor, Cllr Nomusa Mqwebu sent condolences to the families and victims, many of whom came from Bizana in the Eastern Cape. The accident is one of a number of accidents that have claimed 20 lives within our municipal area since the Easter fever started. Mqwebu will be visiting the survivors in hospital and has called on drivers, especially those driving commuter transport, to drive with care and be extra cautious when driving as most accidents are caused by human error.South African National Association Council (Santaco) local spokesperson Mandla Mzelemu said it was tragic that so many lives had been lost. Mzelemu said as the public transport association they were glad that no taxi accidents claiming the lives of commuters had been reported during the holidays. This shows that our drivers are still negligent of road rules, and in this case you can see the main cause of the accident was speed. Two of the taxis were from the Eastern Cape and the one was from a Bambanani association which operates in Margate. This is unacceptable and we urge our drivers to drive cautiously and stick to the speed limit to avoid such tragic events, said Mzelemu.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.