Precious Gumede The first sea rescue boat was donated to the NSRI by the Society of Master Mariners in 1967. The late Captain Bob Deacon is at the helm and the late Ray Lant is the crewman.PHOTOS: Supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) celebrated 50 years of dedication in saving others without reward or compensation. On the South Coast the celebration was held at the Port Edward NSRI station on Saturday. The event was attended by many and included an action packed programme, an Easter egg hunt, potjie competitions among other activities. NSRI station commander John Nicholas said in the 50 years the Port Edward station has been in existence for 12 years and he has been leading it for three years, but he has been with the NSRI for more than six years.One of the speakers was Barry Payne, a Port Edward resident and the nephew of one of the founding members of NSRI, Master Mariner Captain John Payne. Nicholas shared the history of the NSRI saying it is a charity that has over 1 000 unpaid volunteers who respond 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to save lives n South African waters. We also teach children in disadvantaged communities about basic water safety through our proactive educational initiative the WaterWise Academy [WWA], he said. In 2006 NSRI s proactive educational initiative, the WWA, was launched, with a mandate to target child drowning prevention and create awareness strategies. The academy has 12 instructors spread from Soweto to Ceres to Nyanga, and they teach children how to avoid danger, what to do in an emergency, who to call for help and give them the confidence to initiate basic bystander CPR while they wait for an ambulance. WWA targets youth in disadvantaged communities and has taught more than 1 200 000 children about basic water safety, said Nicholas.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.