Betha Madhomu, News24 Get the latest details as South Africa appears before the ICC to defend its failure to arrest Sudanese President Oma al-Bashir who is wanted on charged of genocide. Jump to bottom Cuno Tarfusser is the judge presiding in SA's hearing before the #ICC on #Bashir today. It started 30 minutes ago, livestream to go on soonSA ambassador in Netherlands, Bruce Koloane, is also attending #ICC #Bashir hearing. Remember him? #Guptas #Waterkloof#SA demos likely to overshadow another important story . Hearing at the ICC - SA failure to arrest Sudan's Al Bashir. Follow @annaholliganWhat you need to know: By Carien du Plessis at The Hague...South Africa is set to explain to the International Criminal Court in The Hague today why the government did not arrest Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir when he came to the country in 2015. Al-Bashir is wanted by the court for a number of crimes including genocide and crimes against humanity allegedly committed in Darfur.The South African delegation, led by Dire Tladi, adviser to International Relations Minister Maite Nkoane-Mashabane, are already seated in the court s public gallery for the hearing, set to start at 09.30.&nbsp;He is accompanied by state law adviser Sandia de Wet. South Africa s ambassador to The Netherlands, Bruce Koloane, former chief of state protocol who was in the centre of the storm when the Guptas illegally landed a passenger plane at the Waterkloof Air Force Base, is also in attendance.They will appear before the Pre-Trial Chamber of the ICC to give written and oral submissions on why South Africa did not arrest al-Bashir. The ICC will then decide whether South Africa failed to comply with its obligations under the Rome Statute of the ICC. If there is a finding of non-compliance, the matter may be referred to the Assembly of State Parties. South Africa last month withdrew its memorandum of intention to withdraw from the ICC after a local court found that the correct procedures were not followed.&nbsp;As the Kenyans say: don't be vague, go to The Hague. Here for SA govt/ Al Bashir hearing (because SA didn't arrest him 2015) at 9.30 #ICC pic.twitter.com/jtPzncK7pDThe ICC's prosecutors have hit back, pointing out that in the past South Africa told Bashir he would be arrested if he set foot in the country."No one is above the law, even heads of state," insisted Feltz.Friday's hearing is "a historic opportunity for the court to demonstrate that its charges must be taken with extraordinary seriousness," said Wanda Akin and Raymond Brown, two legal representatives of the victims, in a joint statement.They urged the court to send "an unmistakable message that open defiance of its writ will not be permitted. - AFPThe issue is centred on South Africa's refusal to arrest Bashir when he attended an African Union summit in Johannesburg in June 2015, insisting he had "head of state immunity" and allowing him instead to slip out of the country.The judges will have to decide whether Pretoria violated its obligations under the court's founding Rome Statute by not arresting him and handing him over for trial.South Africa insists it was caught on the horns of a dilemma: between its obligations to both the ICC and to laws providing heads of state with immunity. - AFPSouth Africa will on Friday seek to defend its failure to arrest visiting Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir who is wanted on charges of genocide, at an unprecedented hearing before international war crimes judges.It will be a humbling moment for Pretoria, one of the leading voices in the creation of the International Criminal Court, whose lawyers will be fending off accusations that it failed in its obligations to the tribunal. Jump to top