Mbongiseni MasekoLonwabo Mandondo was stabbed to death over the weekend, in Kanana.PHOTO: Supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Lonwabo Mandondo, an aspiring boxer from Kanana in Gugulethu was stabbed to death by three suspects after an altercation which started in an entertainment place on Saturday morning.Mandondo, 21, died in Groote Schuur Hospital after he was stabbed multiple times on his upper body on the night.Nelly Ngxayi, a cousin of the deceased, said they were disturbed in the sleep by a noisy bunch of men, who happened to be the allegedly responsible for Mandondo s death. We saw them stabbing him. We tried to intervene, but they would not listen to us. They only stopped after some boys from the neighbourhood intervened. We then rushed him to KTC hospital and he was transferred to Groote Schuur hospital where he died. There were a number of stab wounds on his neck and chest. They first hit him with a brick on his head. His attackers claimed that he had a fight with a girl at the place where they were partying. He was a good person. We feel very bad, Ngxayi said.Ngxayi said the deceased was doing his second year in Travel and Tourism at Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) Cape Town Campus.Anele Mfazwe, a member of the Luyolo Boxing Club, where Mandondo was a member, said they were left heart-broken by his sudden death. He was a good and dedicated boxer. He fought in about 11 bouts, loosing only two.He (had)won most of his fights on knockouts. He was very powerful and wasa mover in the ring. We are all shocked and it is a great loss for us, Mfazwe said.Mfazwe said Mandondo was due to turn professional two weeks ago, but he had asked that to be delayed until next year.He joined the club in 2006 when it was established. The club has 37 members.Mandondo will be laid to rest in Gcuwa, in the Eastern Cape on 27 April.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.