Professor Tim Noakes has been found not guilty of misconduct, a professional conduct committee found. Jump to bottom #Noakes is vindicated. What a massive blow for bread.Professor Tim Noakes has been found not guilty of misconduct, a professional conduct committee found on Friday.The majority of the conduct committee found him not guilty.#TimNoakes Happy with verdict, enough clinics for free nursing and mother care advice, why use Twitter? PPL won't help others in future. https://t.co/Ev2h9zj9sZ#Noakes held his head in his hands for a few seconds after being found not guilty. Happy banters all excited to congratulate him.@ProfTimNoakes #noakes Congratulations. You have been vindicated. What a relief. Now you can try to rebuild your professional life.Applause, hugs and handshakes as #Noakes victory is celebrated. pic.twitter.com/sb6IBxncGxMajority of conduct committee has found #Noakes not guilty. Loud applause form audience.Findings: Not proven that Noakes acted in capacity as a doctor, four of five committee members decided.Agrees with complaint that Twitter doesn t lend itself to dr-patient relationship. This wasn t what Leenstra was looking for -Adams #NoakesLeenstra wouldn t be tweeting if baby was in need of medical treatment or advice and required urgent assistance from practitioner. #NoakesNot clear if Leenstra asked personal or general question; doesn t say my baby . Later became apparent she's a breastfeeding mom. #NoakesNo indication Leenstra is a breastfeeding mother herself, or that they are in need of medical or clinical advice. #NoakesMs Leenstra referred to LCHF (low carb, high fat). #Noakes used same acronym. At no point did either refer to no carbs, Adams points out.#Noakes appeared to hold view that HPCSA et al knew he was a scientist, author and LCHF proponent and acting in his capacity as such.From own testimony, #Noakes took the complaint seriously, but was perplexed by the complaint, Adams says.Complaint is to best of committee's knowledge first of its kind involving social media. HPCSA lagging wrt social media guidelines. #NoakesHPCSA said #Noakes responded with reams of paper on LCHF, giving evidence not relevant to the charge.HPCSA asked which hat was #Noakes wearing at the time of the tweet that of scientist or medical practitioner?Professor Willie Pienaar, a psychiatrist and part-time bioethicist, testified doctors cannot give advice without a consultation. #NoakesCentral axis the #Noakes trial hinges on: "unprofessional advice given to a breastfeeding mother on twitter" by @DietitianClaire Jump to top