Heilie Combrinck=Solomon Mahlangu prinicpal, Mncedi Mtengwana, wishing Rachel Dube well on her retirement. In the background is a skcetch one of the learners made of this beloved teacher. Photos:HEILIE COMBRINCK Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories It will be the first school holiday in 35 years which does not have a return date for educator Nothemba Rachel Dube (61) from Solomon Mahlangu Senior Secondary School. This is as she had retired at the end of the first semester.Principal of the school, Mncedi Mtengwana, said as deputy principal and an outstanding and dedicated Geography teacher she will be missed by learners and teachers alike. She loves children and she loves Geography. Through the years she has arranged many interesting educational excursions regarding the subject. Whilst on the way to wherever the destination was, she would keep on teaching learners, pointing out geographical aspects along the road, said Mtengwana. Although retired, she will during the next semester accompany learners on an excursion to Hogsback where they will explore and learn more about the landscape. She has a good track record when it comes to matric results. For the past five years, she has managed an average of 74% in Geography. Her teaching methods, which are old style, are very effective these days. Even the young teachers are learning from her about proper eduction. We wish her the best for the future and her retirement. But, I know she will not sit still, as she is very health conscious and likes to exercise, said Mtengwana. He said that Solomon Mahlangu would still make use of her expertise, especially during the matric camps later this year.Nothemba Rachel Dube said being a teacher, your influence should not be limited to a classroom. This is a poor community and you must help to uplift the standards through proper education. Today s learners should be the next generation s leaders, said Dube. I love Geography because it is a living subject. Like the situation with the current water crisis, as a Geography teacher you have to inform learners about the importance of water and how to help make a difference. They, on the other hand, should go into their communities and spread the information. It is difficult times for her as she recently lost one of her three children. I conceived my late son during 1982 when I started teaching. And now I ve lost him in the year that I retired from teaching, said Dube. She commenced with her teaching career at Burnshill High School in 1982, then moved to Somerset East High and Moses Mabida High in Kirkwood before joining Solomon Mahlangu during 1990. Here she has been for the past 27 years where she served as Head of Department and became the Deputy Principal during 2003.She furthered her studies and obtained BA Hons in Leadership &amp; Education and also a BA degree in Geography and Economics at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.