People react at the site of a bomb blast which struck worshippers gathering to celebrate Palm Sunday at the Mar Girgis Coptic Church in the Nile Delta City of Tanta, 120km north of Cairo. (AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cairo - World leaders have reacted angrily to the weekend bombing of two Egyptian Coptic Christian churches. According to Voice of America (VOA), world leaders had condemned the terror attack at two Coptic churches in Tanta&nbsp;and in Alexandria on Sunday, which killed 44 people and wounded at least 100 others.&nbsp;A number of world leaders have condemned the attack. Pope Francis said that he was praying for the dead and those who were injured, adding that he was close in spirit with their families and the entire community. Meanwhile, reports indicated that the UN Security Council condemned the bombings of two Coptic Christian churches, calling the attacks "heinous" and "cowardly."In a statement, the council urged all member states to co-operate with the Egyptian government in bringing to justice the perpetrators of the attacks, which were claimed by the Islamic State (ISIS)."They expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims and to the government of Egypt and they wished a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured," the statement read. Some have since taken to social media networks in condemning the attacks.Savage ISIS takes responsibility at Christian church attack in Egypt! Must destroy them so they can go to hell where they belong!My heart goes out to the families who lost loved ones in this tragic attack. Tolerance is not the answer to Islam https://t.co/sevPe65OwhAs we celebrate #palmsunday, our prayers and thoughts are with the families of victims in #Egypt Church attack. #Eritrea#EgyptChurchblast.??May all the victims of the heinous attack on Mar Girgis church in Egypt Tanta &amp; St Mark's in Alexandria rest in peace. #PalmSundayThoughts&amp;prayers with victims of terrorist attack on #Tanta church. We stand by #Egypt in our joint war to defeat terrorism on every front24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.