Kaveel Singh, News24Johannesburg &ndash; A peaceful meeting by members and supporters of Save SA was interrupted by a group of about 15 men, a spokesperson said on Wednesday. Save SA spokesperson Mark Heywood said the group was having a peaceful meeting late in the afternoon when the men arrived and began hurling insults and threats. &ldquo;They said we are acting for western imperialism and that we were attacking their president.&rdquo;Heywood said there was a confrontation but no violence. &ldquo;They threatened physical violence and a couple of our supporters were angry and tried to protect us. But I stopped them from engaging. That would have led to more people being hurt.&rdquo;Heywood said the men thereafter snatched posters and banners from inside the Save SA tent. &ldquo;They disappeared for a while but returned later and burnt our stuff that they stole.&rdquo;Heywood said he had taken photographs of the men. He claims the men were ANC members. &ldquo;We know who they are. There was a person in a Mercedez Benz directing them. We have taken the details of that vehicle as well.&rdquo;Heywood said they were going to open a case with police. He added that the men would not leave the area. Save SA set up camp at Church Square since Monday. They promised not to leave until President Jacob Zuma resigned. They were granted permission for their demonstration by police.&nbsp;ANC spokesperson Khusela Sangoni said the organisers of Save SA "would do anything" to tarnish the reputation of the ruling party.&nbsp;"If anybody has been assaulted, those issues should be reported to law enforcement officials instead of seeking cheap publicity around it. Anybody who commits a crime in the name of the ANC or any other organisation must be brought to book. Save SA must just stop seeking cheap publicity in the name of the ANC." Attempts to get comment from police were unsuccessful.#peoplesmarch Save SA members camped in church Sqaure say ANCYL members allegedly attacked them and warned that they would return. VM pic.twitter.com/ojW3YPLhEG#PeoplesMarch Police taking statements. The organisers will lay an official complaint with the police. MV pic.twitter.com/Y85tLlVlgE24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.