Lizeka Tandwa, News24Crowds gather outside the Union Buildings. (Adriaan Basson, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - Political party leaders backed Save South Africa's march to the Union Buildings on Friday calling for President Jacob Zuma to resign.The SACP's second deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila told News24 that African National Congress MPs needed to respect their oath of office rather than pay allegiance to an individual.The party joined the Save SA march after it was denied permission to hold its own one.- Make your voice heard. Are you marching or anywhere near a live protest? Send us your eyewitness accounts and pictures - Tweet us using the hashtag #SAunitesMapaila said the ANC's national working committee (NWC) was a faction belonging to Zuma."Unless it frees itself from that faction, it will not understand what's happening here in this country that it seeks to lead."Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane told protesters that Zuma was "junk", and not the country. He said the march was the beginning of a movement."We are not a junk country. We have a junk president. We will remove junk so South Africa can become prosperous."Political leaders pleaded with protesters to implore their MPs to vote for the motion of no confidence in Zuma on April 18.Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota said South Africans were misled by ANC "scoundrels"."In 1993, Nelson Mandela told the workers and all of us, if the ANC does to you what the apartheid government did to you, then you must do to the ANC what you did to the apartheid government."Freedom Front Plus leader Pieter Groenewald said the country needed to change to a federal system of government."The people must elect the president, not the party. Let's give power back to the people."At least 25 000 people attended the march, said organiser Thabo Masango.People dressed in political party T-shirts marched from Church Square to the Union Buildings holding placards demanding Zuma's resignation. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.