Mandla Mahashe Locals have been warned not to invest with a stokvel that has been struggling to pay its members as far back as 2015. Stockvel SA is a cooperation where investors put in money and gain interest just like any other stockvel, said company CEO Xolani Mkumatela.  This is despite a call made by members of the scheme who claim that they have not being paid despite the schemes promise that they will earn 1% interest on the investment a day. A 32-year-old woman Khayelitsha who spoke to City Vision on condition of anonymity said she invested R3000 in June 2016. The woman forwarded a proof of payment and email exchanges with the organisation from July to as recent as February 2017.  “I was expecting to get my pay back after three weeks as the rules stipulates but when I started enquiring I kept on being stalled.  I called the office and spoke with someone at the desk who told me that payment will be paid as soon as possible,” said that woman from Makhaza.  She said she later received an email from Mkumatela apologising for poor service and that an amount of R1300 would be paid to her but this never happened.  “Ever since then it has been delays and stories when it comes to payments.  The last straw for me was when the story kept changing.  Xolani told us that our money was lent to another company that is failing to pay back the loan and that the matter was in litigation. However, when I called the office the person who answered the phones told me about the matter being taken taxi owners, that’s where I suspected that I may have been scammed,” she said.  The woman said according to her knowledge there have been more than 100 investers in the scheme and that she was angry for being used.  “It’s hard breaking to be scammed like this because people who do this need money so when they play with us, it’s really sad,” she said.  Mkumatela refused to answer questions when called by City Vision.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  