Reporter THE South African National Roads Agency (SOC) Ltd (SANRAL) recently announced road infrastructure development programmes with a total investment value of R1.6 billion for the national road network in Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality (NMBM) and the Sarah Baartman District Municipality. SANRAL will break ground for six new construction, maintenance and upgrading projects in its new 2017/18 financial book year, according to Mbulelo Peterson, SANRAL Southern Region Manager.  Three of the projects will improve the quality of the R75 and N2 for Uitenhage, Joe Slovo and Colchester.  The announcement was made on April 19 at one of SANRAL’s several annual consultation and engagement briefings with municipalities in the Eastern Cape.  SANRAL engaged the mayoral portfolio committee members of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality (NMBM) on cooperation requirements from the NMBM in relation to traffic control and municipal approval of rezoning or subdivision of land adjacent to national road networks, among other things. “The forthcoming projects will not only advance road safety but also deliver a world-class national road network to the province,” Peterson said.  “Along with the Presidential Infrastructure Coordinating Commission’s strategic integrated N2 Wild Coast Toll Road project, investment in the national road network in the Eastern Cape is poised to steer the region into a golden era of prosperity through mobility.  “A safer and effective road network is key to enhancing foreign and domestic direct investment, socioeconomic growth and development as well as government service delivery.”  Petersen indicated that SANRAL will set SMME contract participation goals and community training programmes in forthcoming tender calls to ensure utilisation, maximisation and development of SMME’s.  The forthcoming national road network projects to be launched by SANRAL in NMBM later this year will include: 
 . N2: The construction of the Colchester Interchange (including bridges, pedestrian bridges and walkways) over 18 months is scheduled to commence in October 2017. 
 . R75: A 10-month resurfacing of the Uitenhage off-ramp to Graaff-Reinet Road will include repairing failures, rejuvenating old seals, asphalt overlay, as well as road marking, sign and guardrails will commence in November 2017. 
 . R75: An 18-month rehabilitation of the dual carriageway from N2 to Joe Slovo will include rework of the in situ base, installation of subsurface drains and catch water drains, erosion protection works, as well as road marking, signs and guardrails is scheduled to commence in 2017. “SANRAL remains deeply committed to designing, delivering and maintaining a world class road network in the Eastern Cape.  “Importantly, we are committed to a responsible form of development which factors enterprise and skills development into the equation.  “In the 2016/2017 financial year, SANRAL spent R3.56 billion on contracts with SMMEs, of which R1.9 billion was earned by 1 004 black-owned enterprises. We trained 4 120 people, including 1 531 women, in roadbuilding and other skills through 6 237 courses at an investment of approximately R12.9 million,” Peterson said. In the agency’s 2016/17 financial year, SANRAL said it delivered infrastructure projects to the value of around R300 million in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro.  These included the R80 million slope stabilisation engineering project of the R75 on-ramp into Uitenhage, and the R198 million roadworks project of the N2, Section 11, from the Bramlin Interchange to Coega.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  