Vusi Mthalane Photo: vusi mthalaneEMS Ugu District Manager Tim Larsen shows off the new bus used to do planned patient transportations between Ugu and Durban. With him is advanced life support paramedic Ntombizonke Ngobese. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE KZN Provincial Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Ugu District has taken delivery of four new vehicles which will assist in patient transportation and response times. On March 24, a new patient transport services (PTS) bus was received by EMS Ugu, the first of its kind in the district. EMS district manager Tim Lason said the vehicle is capable of transporting two stretcher patients, four seated patients and one attendant. Based in Port Shepstone, it will be used to transport patients to Durban from Monday to Friday. Last Wednesday, three new fully equipped ambulances were also delivered and were deployed to the sub-districts of Umzinto, Harding and Port Shepstone. The three new ambulances compliment our existing fleet in the provision of an emergency medical service of Ugu district as well as the provision of inter-health facility transfers within and outside the district for patients who need to be transported to a higher level of care, said Larsen. THE KZN Provincial Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Ugu District has taken delivery of four new vehicles which will assist in patient transportation and response times. On March 24, a new patient transport services (PTS) bus was received by EMS Ugu, the first of its kind in the district. EMS district manager Tim Lason said the vehicle is capable of transporting two stretcher patients, four seated patients and one attendant. Based in Port Shepstone, it will be used to transport patients to Durban from Monday to Friday. Last Wednesday, three new fully equipped ambulances were also delivered and were deployed to the sub-districts of Umzinto, Harding and Port Shepstone. The three new ambulances compliment our existing fleet in the provision of an emergency medical service of Ugu district as well as the provision of inter-health facility transfers within and outside the district for patients who need to be transported to a higher level of care, said Larsen. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.