(File: AP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Rabat - UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres says he wants renewed negotiations to resolve the Western Sahara conflict, which has pitted Morocco against the Polisario Front independence movement for 40 years.In a report to the UN Security Council this week, Guterres proposed relaunching the negotiations "with a new dynamic and a new spirit."The goal, he said, should be reaching "a mutually acceptable political solution" that would include "an accord on the nature and form that the exercise of self-determination" would take for the disputed and mineral-rich Western Sahara area.Morocco annexed Western Sahara, a former Spanish colony, in 1975 and fought the Polisario Front. The UN brokered a cease-fire in 1991 and established a peacekeeping mission to monitor it and to help prepare a referendum on the territory's future that has never taken place.Morocco considers the Western Sahara its "southern provinces" and has proposed giving the territory wide-ranging autonomy. The Polisario Front insists on self-determination through a referendum for the local population, which it estimates at between 350 000 and 500 000.Guterres said in the report that he hopes to start new negotiations "on the basis of consultations with the parties and neighbouring states, members of the Friends of Western Sahara Group and the Security Council as well as other important parties."Morocco's government wants Algeria to be involved in any future talks and considers the neighbouring North African country a party to the conflict. Algeria says it is not directly involved in the conflict and supports the UN process.The UN chief expressed concern about the tense situation in Guerguerat, a town in the buffer zone on the Morocco-Mauritanian border, and asked the Polisario to "pull out completely and unconditionally" from the site.The Guerguerat crisis began in August, when Morocco started work on a road in the area. Ragat said the work was needed to combat contraband. The Polisario Front protested and deployed armed forces, saying the road work violated the cease-fire accord. Morocco denied breaking the accord.At the request of the UN, Morocco pulled out of Guerguerat in February. The Polisario Front's forces remain in place.Guterres is expected to name a new envoy for Western Sahara. Morocco accused the previous special envoy, Christopher Ross, of having a "bias in favor of Polisario." Ross resigned in January.The name most often floated to succeed Ross is former German President Horst Kohler. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.