Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A law making it legal for over-18s to smoke and grow weed in their own homes could possibly be confirmed by the Constitutional Court in two years&rsquo; time. While you wait, here&rsquo;s a list of some of the ways you might want to smoke the green in your house once it&rsquo;s fully legal. Remember, everything in moderation, folks...1 The pipe Hit power: . . - - - Made from metal, wood or glass, the pipe is perfect if you don&rsquo;t know how to roll a joint or if you&rsquo;re in a rush. You just put your weed in it, light up and inhale. Be sure not to burn your lips and clean your pipe regularly.2 The apple Hit power: . . . - - Yup, an apple can be used as a home-made pipe by digging out two holes. Use the one hole to smoke out of and another to hold the weed. 3 The joint Hit power: . . . - - Like a bong, a joint will always be the marijuana MVP. Some rolling paper and a paper gerrick or filter are what&rsquo;s required. Don&rsquo;t mess with this method if you don&rsquo;t know how to roll a joint properly. 4 The blunt Hit power: . . . . - These are to the world of stoners as Champagne is to the realm of boozers. Strip a cigar and replace the tobacco with a little electric broccoli. Popular cigars to use include Swisher and Backwoods, which are available at select tobacco dens. 5 The bong Hit power: . . . . - Any true stoner has one, and probably has a name for it, like Jamal (&rsquo;cause one jams the weed in it). A bong is one of the best ways to smoke weed because it can get you really high, really fast. You can make your own fairly easily or buy one. 6 The G-pen Hit power: . . . . - An e-cigarrete, but for weed. What&rsquo;s good is that it cuts the tar out of the smoke. You can take your G-pen everywhere you go. These are a pricy option, but very swag nevertheless. 7 The gravity bong Hit power: . . . . . This takes a bit of energy, but it is worth it. Cut a little less than half off the bottom of a 2-litre plastic bottle and insert it into a bucket of water. Cover the top of the bottle with foil and poke small holes in it. Place the weed on top of the foil and light it, making sure the bottle is firmly touching the bottom. As the weed burns, lift the bottle slowly to suck in the smoke and trap it between the foil and the water line. Once the bottle is brimming with smoke, remove the foil, then press the bottle back down into the water while inhaling the smoke. Boom!8 The vaporiser Hit power: . . . . . They say this is the healthiest way to get high. It&rsquo;s an odourless delivery system that allows you to inhale the pure vapour of your weed, cutting out the tar debris. Vapes are mad pricy, but make a good investment as they will last you quite a while. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.