Nation Nyoka, News24 BLF members and protesters square off outside the Military Museum in Saxonwold where the Guptas were hosting a religious ceremony. (Nation Nyoka, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – Members of Black First Land First (BLF) interrupted
a protest by Johannesburg Against Injustices (JAI) at a Shrimad Bhagwat
Katha ceremony organised by the Gupta family at the Military Museum in Saxonwold on Sunday. BLF said they were there to
protect the rights of the Guptas to celebrate their religion, and it would not
stand for 'agents of Rupert' interrupting the Guptas at their event. "We have been asked by the
community to make sure that there are no disruptions that take place here
today," said Zanele Lwana, deputy
president of the BLF. "This is an attack on the
religious community of this country. This is an attack on freedom and being
safe. They’re basically saying the Gupta family actually does not even have a
right to pray in this country, which is completely wrong because it’s their
constitutional right to pray," said Lwana. The JAI said that while they
respected the rights of devotees to worship, the actions of the Gupta family
were contrary to the teachings of Lord Krishna. Officers from the Parkview Police
and Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) were called to the scene by one
of the protesters who said she felt intimidated and claimed she was manhandled. Police officers could not verify whether the protest was legal or
not. "What we did today was not a
march. What we had was a small, organised silent protest. There were only ten
people, and we spread ourselves to different entrances, with our posters –
which we had a right to have. That does not require permission," said Peggy
Pillay, one of the organisers. In a statement, the JAI described
the Gupta family as "perpetual wrongdoers", saying "they must not use religion
to conceal their nefarious deeds or as some kind of public relations exercise
to turn the tide of public opinion".  The organisation called on Hindu leaders and priests to boycott
the event. Neeshan Balton, CEO of the
Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, was there in his personal capacity. He said one
can’t use religion to pretend to be good people
because good always triumphs over evil. "The good will always triumph
over the evil. We will get rid of this family and their stronghold over this
country, as well as all of the efforts at capturing our country and our
state."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  