Kalisha Naicker, Hillcrest FeverA monkey that was shot with a air gun in Kloof recently. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - Animal lovers in the Upper Highway area are angry about the increase in air-gun attacks on monkeys, leaving them incapacitated and sometimes dead. Residents are now calling for the ban of air guns in residential areas. Kloof resident Kathy Chetty said she was outraged when she saw a monkey dripping with blood in her yard last week. She said the injury looked as though the animal had been shot with an air gun. &ldquo;I wanted to help it, but I was scared. When I tried to approach the monkey, it became aggressive and ran away. &ldquo;It broke my heart to see the monkey in pain and there was nothing I could do to help. I wish these guns are banned from residential properties. People who are caught using them should be charged as they can inflict the same damage as a firearm,&rdquo; said Chetty.Recently two adult males were shot in Gievers Road in Assagay, with three adolescent ones being shot in Nzinga Road and Mac Mac Road in Waterfall 3. In addition a young female was shot in Beryldene Road in Kloof, a sub-adult male was also in Beryldene Road. A juvenile was shot in Rob Roy Lane in Botha&rsquo;s Hill, an old female was shot in 3rd Avenue, Ashley in Pinetown, and two monkeys were shot in Jan Smuts Avenue, Winston Park. &ldquo;In reality, the crime of air-gun violence takes place indiscriminately, as can be seen from the number of domestic dogs and cats, Hadedas, doves, birds of prey, Woolyneck Stalks and even a Crowned Eagle in Winston Park and a Gymnogene in Westville that are being brought into vets dead or for treatment after being shot with an air gun. &ldquo;The use of air guns in an urban area is a criminal act."In terms of the Fire Arms Control Act, Act 60 of 2000, section 120, specifically paragraphs 3(b) and 7, restricts the use of an air gun in precisely the same way as the use of firearms and antique firearms are restricted. &ldquo;This would literally mean that anyone randomly discharging an ai rgun in a residential or built-up area or public place without good reason would be guilty of an offence. Shooting monkeys or other animals does not constitute a &lsquo;good reason&rsquo;, even if an attempt is made to justify it on the grounds of a concocted story of self- defence,&rdquo; she said. The Monkey Helpline calls for an outright ban of air guns. &ldquo;Government must be pressurised into ensuring that members of SAPS and other law enforcement bodies are aware of the seriousness of air-gun abuse and understand their responsibility in dealing with reported cases of such abuse,&rdquo; added Booth. For information on how to deal with monkey-related issues in a compassionate way go to www.monkeyhelpline.co.za or call on 082 659 4711 or 082 411 5444 to report cruelty.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.