(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Two Zimbabwean men have reportedly been found dead after heavy drinking sprees in Bulawayo.Bulawayo &ndash; A Zimbabwe man, 24, has been arrested for attempted murder after he reportedly grabbed an axe from a man during a fight and hit him in the head. According to the state-owned Chronicle newspaper, Bhekithemba Mpofu was arrested by villagers and was handed over to the police after hitting a man, only identified as Aleck, on the head with an axe. Aleck was battling for his life in an intensive care ward at the United Bulawayo Hospital. The incident happened early on Wednesday morning last week. A police spokesperson has confirmed the incident, adding that the suspect had been arrested and would face attempted murder charges. A neighbour, identified as John Moyo, said that the two men had earlier been seen drinking together at the Claremont Business Centre. He said the two were not best friends, but were usually seen drinking together. He said that villagers had intervened and stopped their quarrel, leading the two to go to their respective homes. According to Moyo, a short while later, the victim went to the suspect&rsquo;s house and forced his way, breaking down his bedroom door with the axe. "He broke down his bedroom door and went straight to where he was sleeping and the two began to wrestle. Aleck attempted to axe Bheki twice, before Bheki managed to grab the axe from him. He instead axed him once in the right side of the head,&rdquo; Moyo was quoted as saying. Early this month, News24 reported that 34-year old man had killed his drinking friend - axing him five times - for leaving him behind at a bar. Antony Ndlovu was arrested after brutally attacking Tapiwanashe Mutakaya, 43, with an axe, causing his instant death.Witnesses were quoted as saying that Ndlovu had confronted the deceased after he was left behind, leading to a fist fight between the two neighbours.Their brawl was stopped by security guards, but Ndlovu allegedly followed the deceased to his home, where he allegedly threw profanities at the deceased in front of his wife.Mqondisi Maseko, who is Mutakaya&rsquo;s neighbour, said the two again had a go at each other, resulting on Ndlovu axing the deceased.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.