Mbongiseni MasekoThozama Mgaga, teacher, Demi Leigh Nel-Peters, Miss SA, Mervyn Naidoo, general manager at Grand West Casino, Moipone Sam, principal and Noluthando Mzondi, teacher, at Intsebenziswano Senior Secondary School, on Friday.PHOTO: Mbongiseni Maseko Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The launch of hospitality laboratory sparked hope for bright future for learners, on Friday, at Intsebenziswano Senior Secondary School, in Philippi. The laboratory, which is fully equipped with equipments needed by learners to master their cooking skills, came as a donation from Grand West Casino.The event was attended by Mervyn Naidoo, general manager at Grand West Casino and his team, Demi Leigh Nel-Peters, the newly crowned Miss SA 2017, Alan Meyer, chief director for education districts in the province, principals from other schools in the area and members of School Governing Body (SGB).Moipone Sam, the school principal, said the school was really in need for the hospitality classroom.Sam said their prayers were answered after they wrote to the casino asking for their intervention.Thozama Mgaga, the teacher for hospitality subject, was overwhelmed when she narrated the story of their struggle in class as result of not having proper equipment. This will not only benefit us, but the community at large. We have been using soft drink bottles as flour grinders because we lacked equipment. This will help with equipping them with skills and in future open-up opportunities for their careers, Mgaga said.Naidoo said the laboratory will make a great impact in the career of the learners. We have a deep responsibility to give back in communities. We are grooming the chefs for the future. We will ensure that this is sustainable. We will also take learners to see what it is like to be in the kitchen in our casino, he said.Naidoo also said they have sponsored other schools in townships such as Sinethemba with the same laboratory and many others in the country.The donation also includes the class fitted with software technology where they will learn more about the theory of hospitality.Meyer advised learners to utilise the gift wisely and respect it. We as the department are very happy for the initiative. It will restore hope for the children. It will also inspire them, he added. Soyama Makhaluza, chairperson for SGB, also applauded the donation. We are happy for such expensive equipment that you gave us. You did a great job. This will also benefit the next generation, Makhaluza said.Vuyo Tshaka, member of Representative Council of Learners (RCL), thanked the casino for their help.He said learners were using three out of seven ovens and the others were broken.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.