Nokuthula KhanyilePHOTO:nokuthula khanyilePresident Jacob Zuma at the launch of the Westgate social housing project. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma was welcomed with applause in Imbali Unit 1 sports ground on the weekend for the launch of the Westgate social housing project on Saturday. The project is one of the largest social housing projects in the country and will deliver 1000 units, accommodating 4000 beneficiaries.Addressing many at the official launch, Zuma said the project caters for people earning between R1 500 and R7 500 a month. The units consist of two bedrooms each with an open-plan kitchen and lounge. The project is expected to cost R400 million, which includes funding from the private sector. It is not RDP houses or low-cost houses or rent to buy, it is just for our people to rent and when they leave here to buy their own house elsewhere new people will rent. He said KwaZulu-Natal has only been able to deliver social housing in Msunduzi and eThekwini municipalities. These are the only two municipalities who had restructuring zone approved previously. I m pleased to note that social housing will soon be rolled out in five additional municipalities in the province. We are a government that will never rest until every South African lives in a decent shelter. Our resolve is to restore the dignity of our people through human settlements. Projects such as this one provide proof that we are a country where people from all racial and cultural backgrounds can live and play together. Zuma said the KZN government has built 500 housing units since 1994 with 2 000 000 beneficiaries. Housing delivery since 1994 has seen a number of new townships established across the country benefiting millions of South Africans and bringing transformation to the disfigurement left the apartheid regime. In addition to this a number of previously disadvantaged communities have benefited immensely. There is still more that needs to be done, even if we work and deliver we are very still conscious that we have not completed our work, he added.He said housing delivery was made more difficult by rapid urbanisation spiralling costs of building material. To meet this rapidly rising demand compels government to relook at its housing priorities to address the demands of rapid urbanisation. I call upon the young working people to consider making use of the finance-linked individual subsidy programme [Flisp] to buy themselves houses. This programme was developed to enable first time home owners opportunities to people earning between R3 500 and R15 000 a month through loans of up to R87 000. He also made a call for beneficiaries to value their houses. We have noticed some disturbing trends where government housing beneficiaries sell their houses and become indigent again. Do not sell your legacy and that of your children. Know that you only get one opportunity from government restore your dignity. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.