Shongweni K9 Unit hero police dog Max is back in action after serious allergies almost ended his career. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - Shongweni K9 hero police dog Max is back in action after allergies almost put an end to his commendable crime fighting career. In a statement, the station said Max was an invaluable member of their K9 unit before being overcome by allergies in 2016.Unit commander Warrant Officer Colin Buckthorp said Max is a &ldquo;big dog&rdquo; and excelled at his job. &ldquo;He and his handler Constable Khumalo had helped apprehend many criminals. He was our top-performing dog,&rdquo; Buckthorp said. An attack from a life-threatening allergy saw Max starting to lose weight. &ldquo;He was sent to the police vet in Pretoria for treatment and initially seemed to improve. However, once he returned to Shongweni he deteriorated, developing a skin condition that became badly infected, Buckthorp said.&ldquo;He lost most of his hair. His skin was red, sore and swollen. He was too ill to work and just lay in a corner, depressed, not wanting to move.&rdquo; A critically ill Max was then taken to a Crossroads Vet and veterinarian Dr Rob Crosley said he was so aggressive from the pain they had to sedate him just to do an examination. Because diet can play such an important role in helping manage skin conditions, Crossroads Vet asked Hill&rsquo;s Pet Nutrition to provide a special skin care food for Max. He was put on strict flea control and initially given medication to help manage the inflammation. Within a short time of treatment and exclusively adhering to the prescribed diet, Max started to get better. Within a week he was improving. &ldquo;Now he is like a different dog,&rdquo; said Buckthorp. &ldquo;Before, he looked like he was on his way out, his eyes were dull. Now he has got the wag back in his tail and a zest for life. At his recent annual assessment, he scored 96%.&rdquo; - Witness Reporter.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.