Constable SS Ncube (left) and Constable Y Pillay shows an unlicensed firearm that was recovered. Photo: andile sithole Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A JOINT operation between the Verulam SAPS, Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), Metro police, RTI and Vehicle Theft Unit paid dividends over the weekend after five wanted suspects were arrested. The joint operation, called Operation Lock Down was aimed to start the Easter holiday operations and to root out criminal activities in the Verulam CBD. The first suspect aged 25 was arrested on the N2 for possession of unlicensed firearm. It is alleged that the suspect was part of a gang involved in a robbery syndicate on the N2 robbing truck drivers. Police spokesperson in Verulam Captain Mark Prakasim said the gang targets truck drivers on the N2. The suspects allegedly pose as hikers and rob the victims. When the drivers stop his truck to pick them [suspects] up, the suspect holds the victim at gunpoint and robs them. During our operation we received a call from one of the victims alerting the police about a suspicious man on the N2. The suspect was positively identified as one of suspects who had robbed truck drivers on the N2. Officers were sent to the scene to investigate. He was found in possession of a firearm. He was arrested and charged for possession of an unlicensed firearm. Prakasim said the operation was successful. Two other suspects were arrested for outstanding traffic fines and the other two were arrested for armed robbery. The suspects are in police custody waiting to appear in court. Three stolen vehicles were recovered. Traffic fines were also issued to motorists driving vehicles that were not roadworthy. Captain Prakasim added that operations of this nature will continue throughout the Easter holidays to ensure the safety of the public.Head of Rusa Prem Balram said: The joint operation between Rusa and the police is always fruitful because we have many successes in terms of arrests that we have made. We most definitely will continue working with the police and use our resources such as the helicopter and other resources that we have to fight against crime. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.