Jaco Nel, Netwerk24Lourette Kruger. (Jaco Nel, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria - When a hijacker grabbed the keys out of Lourette Kruger's Chevrolet Aveo last week, a small picture of her 3-year-old son Stian spurred her into action and she fought back.Despite the hijacker's threats that he would kill her, she slapped him, bit his arm and drove over his feet with her car, Netwerk24 reported. Kruger, 36, a clinic sister from Carletonville, had been in Pretoria for computer training, which finished at 15:40."I was dying for a cigarette," Kruger said. "I sat smoking in the car because I wanted to miss peak hour traffic."Her Waze navigation app was on for the trip home. However, at a traffic light she heard a loud bang. A man had hit the window on the passenger side so hard that it had cracked. When she turned her head that way, another attacker struck through the open window on her side of the car.StraggledHe tried to grab her cellphone, but she smacked it out of his hands."Get out of the fucking car, you white bitch," he snarled. "I will shoot you."He grabbed the car's key with his right hand."I can't believe that anyone can be trained to switch off a car and pull out the key in one go." Kruger said. "But when I saw Stian's picture on the key ring, I snapped. I didn't even worry about the car."She grabbed the keys and the would-be hijacker started strangling her with his left hand."Didn't you hear me?" he threatened again.Kruger said a police officer stood across the road from them, but did nothing. Some passers-by turned their heads away."I was furious because he was holding my child's picture with such audacity," she said. "I shouted at him: 'Perhaps should get a fucking job and buy your own car!'"Kruger was out of breath and dizzy because he wouldn't let go of her throat. Yet she grabbed the keys from his hand with such force that she broke one of her fingernails off in his hand.She started the car, but when he tried to go for them again, she bit his arm, leaving a gash. He tried to grab something from his back pocket, possibly a gun, but by then Kruger had the car in first and drove over both his feet."I don't know if he was still standing," she said. "I didn't turn around. I didn't even spit out the blood. I just sped off.""I got terribly lost and the shock left me deaf. I couldn't hear the radio. I couldn't even hear Waze. Nothing."When next she next came to her senses, she was on her way to Polokwane on the N1."I only got back to Carletonville at 20:00," she said.She is trying to deal with the shock, but in hindsight she is glad that she could have defended herself."People always wait meekly for the next bastard to come your way to help make things better for you. But here's the bad news: No one will." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.