Johannesburg - Residents of Klerksdorp and surrounding towns were woken by an earth tremor on Monday morning. The USGS National Earthquake Information Center stated on its website that a tremor was felt at 05:08 in the Stilfontein area. It was at a depth of 5km and had a magnitude of 5.2. News24 User Cecelia Katebe said: "At exactly 05:10 the wardrobes in my bedroom started shaking and I was very much awake so it was not a dream. Because I have experienced this before in Japan, I knew what it was."Evelyn Matohlang Modiegi Sebidi felt the tremor at about 05:09. She said: "The house and the bed I was in shook a bit and the kids even asked me what was that.""We felt the tremor in Parys, Free State around 5:10 this morning as well," said Michelle van Deventer."Our bed shooked and the whole house rattled and it sounded like a roar coming through, said Madeleine Cornelissen, describing the experience in Bothaville in the Free State as "nogal scary". - Did you feel it?&nbsp;Share your experience with us.A number of people took to Twitter on Monday morning to share their experiences of it. Earth ?? tremor reported to have been felt in Ferndale, Randburg, Kempton, Fourways, Randfontein. Anywhere else? #EarthTremor ^NS@News24 felt the tremor just after 5am, but nothing affected by itSo we experienced an #earthquake #tremor this morning of ???? magnitude Re tla shwa re robetse ??????Did anyone feel that #tremor or was it just in Klerksdorp? Let me ask for forgiveness before the world ends.Was it an Earthquake or a Tremor? Felt everything shaking!Didn't need an alarm this morning. Mother Nature woke me up with a little shake action. Who else felt the tremor? #tremor #fourwaysThat explains my windows rattling earlier. Kanti there was a tremor.Anyone know the magnitude of the tremor this morning? That was very scary #tremorWas it just me or was there an earth tremor about 30-45mins ago? ????Hopefully the tremor felt this morning was the vast number of people marching to Union Buildings. #cabinetreshuffle #ZumaNoConfidenceThere was no earthquake/tremor. It was just Baba letting us know he can reshuffle us as well. Continue with black monday to your own peril.So that was a tremor? I just thought that was OOMF flatulence because Chiefs wonIf we still unsure if this country needs a wake up, Mother Nature just gave us a clear sign #tremor #jozi #southafricamustrise #Blackmonday24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.