Njabulo Ncube, News24 Robert Mugabe. (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare – Zimbabwean
Cabinet ministers on Monday presented a mobile chair to President Robert Mugabe
to "enable him navigate his way around his office as well as at home". The mobile
chair, otherwise ordinarily referred to as a wheelchair, was presented as a
belated birthday gift during a ceremony at his office. Critics said it confirmed that old age
had taken its toll on the Zanu-PF leader who turned 93 in February. Mugabe
thanked the ministers for coming up with the idea of the gift, saying this was
an indication of a good working spirit in his Zanu-PF government. "I thank
all of you for putting your heads together to come up with this gift,” he said
as he took delivery of the special mobile chair which insiders claimed was
bought in China. "The gift shows
the team spirit which should always prevail all times in the delivery of
service to the nation." But there
was derision on social media and in the opposition as critics said the
development confirmed Mugabe was "incapacitated", citing advanced age and
alleged ill-health. See
reaction social media below There was a
general consensus he should quit active politics after being at the helm of the
country for the past 38 years. Zanu-PF has
endorsed him to be the party’s presidential candidate at next year’s polls
tentatively set for July. Constitutional
lawyer and former adviser to MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai, Alex Magaisa said:
So President Mugabe’s cabinet gave him a special mobile chair. Does he get the
message?” Reward
Mushayabasa, a political analyst said this showed that Mugabe had long lost his
marbles. “He does not care about the welfare of Zimbabweans and the legacy he
will bequeath to our nation. He is more interested in self-preservation,” said Mushayabasa. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  