Mbongiseni MasekoTinytubbies Educare, from Grassy Park, in partnership with Lingelethu West Police Station handed over donation at Umzomhle Educare Centre, on Tuesday, in TR Section, Khayelitsha.PHOTO: Mbongiseni Maseko Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A struggling cr che received a much needed donation from another educare in partnership with SAPS, on Tuesday, in Khayelitsha.Umzomhle Educare Centre which is based in TR Section was lucky enough to welcome the donation. Thanks to Tinytubbies Educare, from Grassy Park, in partnership with Lingelethu West SAPS station for donating clothes, grocery, toys, television set, Easter Eggs, and planted vegetables for them at their garden.The relationship formed with the cr che, based at TR Section, is planned to benefit them for longer in future. Maud Kleinsmith, human resource officer from the police station, said they were touched by the condition of the cr che after visiting them recently. We identify a needy cr che every year around the Easter to donate to. So this year we identified this one. We were so shocked when we visited the cr che to learn about their situation. This is a health and wellness month for police hence they are also involved in the project, Kleinsmith said.Myrtle Swartz, owner of Tinytubbies Educare, said they their aim is to help improve the situation of the cr che. We saw a need to come to an aid for the less fortunate cr che. We are planning to come back to donate winter clothes as part of our winter drive. We have already formed a relationship with the cr che which will benefit them in future, Swartz said. Swartz said they have also been to Bonginkosi Educare, in the area, which they have donated many things for a number of years. Elizabeth Sindi, 64, the principal of Umzomhle Educare Centre, applauded the donation. We accommodate children who are coming from a disadvantage background and most parents cannot afford to pay. We always run out of grocery. We feel very happy. This is like a manna that feel for the Israelites .. We are really in need. Sometimes thugs brake-in and steal the little grocery that we buy. Four classes had to share the few toys that we had, Sindi said.The cr che of 116 children between the ages of zero to 5, was established in 1997.Parents pay between R100 and R200 per month.Nombuyiselo Nonkonyane, chairperson at the cr che thanked the donors and said the cr che is really in need for help.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.