Lynn.Hitchcock Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE eThekwini Municipality has been alerted to a scam where individuals have fallen victim to fraudulent advertisements from a con artist claiming to be a municipal employee. In the latest scam, applicants are told to pay a fee ranging from R150 to R1 500 in order to secure a job at the municipality as either a cleaner, an official for Durban Solid Waste or under the Expanded Public Works Programme. The con artist, known as Amanda, has been sending WhatsApp messages to unsuspecting individuals saying that after paying the necessary fee at any of their listed retail store outlets, applicants must visit 13th Floor Shell House in 221 Anton Lembede Street (Smith Street), Durban, to submit their CV in order to get a job at the municipality. We appeal to the public not to respond to any recruitment advertisements where an applicant is required to pay. Any applicant who pays to secure a job is engaging in an unlawful act. As local government, we wish to clarify that the municipality does not charge the public to apply for any advertised post. Job seekers are urged to follow the correct procedures when applying for a job. Funded and approved vacancies are advertised every second Friday in the municipality s staff vacancy circular, which is placed on municipal notice boards, as well as being published in the municipal publication - eZasegagasini Metro newspaper and the municipal website. Applications can be submitted via email or to the postal address provided in the advertisement. An interview panel is appointed by the unit concerned and all applications received by the stipulated deadline date are considered by the panel. The panel compiles a shortlist of applicants and interviews, and where applicable, tests are conducted to select the successful candidate. If anyone has been asked to pay a bribe in order to secure a municipal job, we urge them to report these cases to the City Integrity and Investigations Unit on 0800 202020 and the South African Police Service on 10111. - Supplied. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.