News24 CorrespondentCape Town &ndash; President Jacob Zuma said on Friday that gospel star Lundi Tyamara, who was ill and died after a short stay in hospital, was one of the country's best ever gospel artists.Aside from Zuma, political parties, including the EFF, Cope and IFP, sent condolences to the family of the star.Zuma said he was saddened that Tyamara, "a talented artist," died at such a young age."This is yet another huge loss for the country in a short space of time. He was one of the best gospel artists that the country has ever produced. We are with his family in thoughts and prayers during this trying period. May his soul rest in peace," he said.READ: SA gospel star Lundi Tyamara dies at age 38 The Mphefumlo wami singer was being treated for TB of the stomach and a liver condition.Gauteng Premier David Makhura said Tyamara had changed the sphere of the gospel industry with his first album."Lundi&rsquo;s dedication and commitment to his craft saw him grow from humble beginnings into a household name in the gospel industry. On behalf of the people of Gauteng and the provincial government, I extend our condolences to the family, friends and the entire entertainment industry," Makhura said.EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said Tyamara was one of them, and supported the EFF at a time when it was not fashionable to do so."It is therefore not just an artist that has fallen, but a revolutionary who used his talent to awaken our people spiritually and to partake in a generational revolution of his time," he said."We therefore call on all artists to pick up his spear, firstly to emulate him in not only singing for some of their fans, but to sing to all, whatever party they may belong to. Secondly, like Lundi, to stand up for a generational course and revolution and never to betray the truth."Lost a legendIFP national spokesperson Blessed Gwala said the South African music industry has lost a legend."It&rsquo;s a moment of great sorrow to the family and the music industry, particularly, the gospel genre. His music touched the hearts of millions of people."Tyamara was a gifted musician who left an indelible mark in the country and represented our country with distinction," he said.Cope spokesperson Dennis Bloem said everyone loved Tyamara's songs."Lundi was one of the local talents that helped bring inner peace in the souls of many South Africans through his songs."The National Freedom Party (NFP) said the star will be remembered for his passion for music.He had not been perfect, the NFP said, but had always worked to be a better person.Tyamara was 38 years old."Lundi put up a gallant fight against his illness, but God's will prevailed. We ask that his fans, supporters and followers join us in celebrating his life."We will always remember him for how he brightened up our days with his God-given talent. Rest in peace Lundi," Anele Hlazo, his manager and family spokesperson, said on Friday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.