Hanti Otto, Netwerk24The back window of the couple's car was smashed with a hammer. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pretoria &ndash; She was hit with a hammer twice before the hijacker grabbed her by the hair and shoved a gun against her head.Behind her, in his car seat, was her 4-month-old son. She closed her eyes and waited for the shot."Reverse! Reverse!" her husband shouted, while shielding the child with his body.The Pretoria woman told Netwerk24 that the four neatly-dressed men had probably thought they were easy targets: the "vulnerable" young mother, 25, driving and a baby boy in the back seat with her 27-year-old husband.However, she and the father both had a common goal: to save their baby."We were so scared that the bullets would hit our child," said the mother.'Wearing a balaclava'The couple doesn't want to be identified. The hijackers know where they stay and according to the police, they're possibly members of a syndicate operating in the area. They normally drive a white BMW.The family had been shopping on Sunday afternoon."But because it is a townhouse complex, I thought nothing of it."The entrance gate works with a disk which has to be scanned."I drove closer to where the scanner is and was going to open the window to swipe the disc."However, the white car which had been behind them, "sped past" and cut in between the family&rsquo;s BMW and the gate."The one man was wearing a balaclava. To the right of me, there was another man, dressed in a suit."Too shocked to reactHe was the man wielding the hammer. The BMW has reinforced windows and the first blow only cracked it.The attacker hit the window again, and this time it shattered and the hammer hit the woman on the neck and arm.Her husband got the baby out of the car seat, and holding him against his chest, he bent forward so that the child could fit into the space behind the front seat, with his father shielding him.When her husband's "reverse" order came, she was too shocked to react."I couldn&rsquo;t get the car into reverse, just neutral."But the car started rolling backwards and the hijacker was forced to let go of my hair."She then managed to force the car into reverse and drove off.'We were in big trouble'The four attackers charged, shooting as they came."When I managed to get the car into the road, they were in front of us."I realised we were in big trouble. I managed to get the car into 'drive' and floored it from 0 to &ndash; I think &ndash; 200 and flew past them, over a traffic island, a circle and a red robot.""Somewhere along the line, I cut in in front of another car. I gestured 'jammer tannie'," says the mom.She kept on shouting at her husband: "Are they behind us?"She only stopped when they got to the Lyttelton police station."The support was amazing. Within minutes, two ambulances had arrived and the area is being patrolled now, which helps when we are scared to go home."With the exception of the bruise on her arm, where she&rsquo;d been hit with the hammer, they were all unharmed.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.