The Horseshoe Bend Treatment Plant is seen at the far shore of the Berkeley Pit in Butte, Montana. (Matt Volz, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Butte — It was an unusual and unfortunate confluence of events: A
larger-than-normal number of geese was making a later-than-normal migration
over Montana when a snowstorm blew in at the wrong time and sent them soaring
to the wrong place. The throngs of white birds splashed down in a 50 billion-gallon
toxic stew in a former copper mine that is part of the nation's largest
Superfund site. At least 3 000 died. Residents of this mining city say the snow goose deaths this fall
were a wake-up call that raises broader questions about whether federal
regulators will be ready to prevent the heavily acidic, metal-laden water from
contaminating other waterways and Butte's ground water system as the pit nears
capacity. "We need to be prepared, and they're not prepared,"
former state lawmaker-turned-activist Fritz Daily said. "I'm talking about
the environmental future of this town, I'm talking about the economic future of
this town, I'm talking about the social future of this town." The Anaconda Copper Co. mined thousands of miles of tunnels under
Butte over a century, finding gold, silver, lead, zinc, manganese and
especially copper, and earning the city of 30 000 the nickname "The
Richest Hill on Earth". The old mine shafts started flooding when mining
there ended in 1982, sending contaminated water into the Berkeley Pit. It's
been slowly filling up ever since. The liquid is expected to reach a critical level in 2023, and
environmental officials are finalizing a plan for keeping it from contaminating
Butte's groundwater and Silver Bow Creek, a stream at the headwaters of the
Columbia River basin. The critical level of 1 650m, set by the Montana Bureau of
Mines and Geology as the lowest elevation in Butte's drainage system. Above
that, water from the pit and flooded mines under the city could escape into
Silver Bow Creek. Fifteen metres higher, the pit and mine water would enter the
city's groundwater. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; Atlantic Richfield,
which bought Anaconda Copper in 1977; and Montana Resources, owner of an
adjacent mine, negotiated a solution that relies on a water treatment plant
built near the pit in 2000. The Horseshoe Bend plant now treats more than 15 million litres of
water a day that would otherwise flow into the pit, and the plan is for it to
treat another 11 million litres a day directly from the pit starting in 2023. The plant has never handled 26 million litres at once, but EPA
officials say there is enough time for a thorough review to ensure the
contaminated water will never escape into the city's Silver Bow Creek, whose
banks have yet to be cleaned of the mine waste that was dumped there for
decades. "We're going to really start digging into pilot studies and
performance testing ... to determine what kind of upgrades, what kind of
redundancies do we need," said EPA project manager Nikia Greene. Atlantic Richfield and Montana Resources, which operates Horseshoe
Bend, are confident the treatment plant will work as designed. Atlantic Richfield
spokesperson Brett Clanton said the plant received $1 million worth of upgrades
in 2015, and additional improvements will begin by 2019. ‘Nothing to worry about’ Mark Thompson, Montana Resources' environmental affairs manager,
compared the plan to a sewage treatment plant that continuously discharges
water that meets environmental standards. "It's nothing to be worried
about," he said. The recent mass goose deaths were an anomaly, he said, and
activists' attempt to tie them to a threat to Butte's human population is
"well overblown." But community activists worry the treatment-plant option is being
favored because it's the cheapest technology, not necessarily the best. They also suspect Atlantic Richfield will seek a waiver from the
EPA allowing the company to discharge pit water into Silver Bow Creek that does
not meet Montana's clean water standards. If that happens, Silver Bow Creek will be devastated, and the
hundreds of millions of dollars spent on cleaning waterways downstream will be
erased, according to community coalition Restore Our Creek. "When you think about the Berkeley pit water, whatever form
that takes, it's going to have to go through this one mile," member Evan
Barrett said of the creek running through the city. "I think the community
understands this mile is critical to our future and also the future of the
whole watershed." Greene acknowledged the EPA is studying a possible waiver of the
state's water quality standards, but said he could not elaborate because it is
part of confidential negotiations with Atlantic Richfield. "I'm very confident that whatever discharged water, however
it's treated, will not be allowed to be discharged if it affects Silver Bow
Creek," Greene said. Perhaps the community's biggest concern is that there is no
strategy for the Berkeley Pit beyond keeping the water from reaching the
critical level. Daily and the Restore Our Creek coalition members said the plan
only ensures that Butte will remain a Superfund site forever. That would be
unusual for a program meant to permanently clean places polluted by hazardous
pollutants — cleanups of nearly 400 sites across the nation have been completed
and removed from the Superfund list as of December, according to the EPA. The EPA's Greene could not say whether Butte will always be a
Superfund site, though he said there will always be some form of operation
maintenance for the treatment plant plan. "That's a tough question," he said. "I guess
Superfund is going to be there for a long time." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  