Jeanette Chabalala, News24Charlotte Ramohai (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; The State closed its case on Thursday in the trial of a man accused of killing a pregnant mother in front of her young children during a hijacking in Soweto.Mlungisi Twala, 24, appeared in the High Court sitting in Palm Ridge for the murder of Charlotte Ramohai in 2015.Twala appeared with Alex Ngobeni, 25, his co-accused in a separate case - the hijacking and murder of Ebrahim Dassot Mahomed. The cases are being heard together.They face charges of murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances, unlawful possession of a firearm, unlawful possession of ammunition, and kidnapping.A fingerprint expert testified on Thursday that the prints he lifted from the hijacking crime scene in the Mahomed case and the ones he obtained from the investigating officer matched those of the accused.Ramohai was picking up her 12-year-old daughter from a Soweto school on Monday April 20, 2015. She had her seven-year-old son in the car with her when two armed men hijacked her in Bram Fischerville, Phase 4.They attacked her after her daughter got into the car. Ramohai was shot and thrown out of the car with her children. She died at the scene. She was three months pregnant at the time. Her children survived.The car was found abandoned in Dobsonville Extension 3 several hours later.&ldquo;Each and every day that the matter goes on, it causes stress for the family,&rdquo; Ramohai's husband, Tshepo, told News24 on Thursday.&ldquo;It is better not to be here, but I need to be here to see what is going on. It's been a while since the incident happened and we are trying as a family. The children are now picking up the momentum when it comes to their studies,&rdquo; he said.Mahomed was hijacked and killed 10 days after Ramohai. Twala and Ngobeni allegedly approached Mahomed as he was sitting in his Honda Civic with one of the witnesses. The witness and Mahomed were forced into the back seat at gunpoint.They were driven to Soweto and then ordered into the boot. The witness was later left in a field. Mahomed was found dead in the boot.Twala and Ngobeni are expected back in court on Friday. &nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.