James de Villiers, News24 The fire gutted buildings on the Druk My Niet winefarm outside Paarl. (James de Villiers, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A wildfire fanned by gusting winds engulfed large sections of an eco-friendly wine farm in Paarl, destroying a manor house and buildings, some of which are more than 300 years old.WATCHCape Town &ndash; The Western Cape could expect more wildfires, while drought conditions were set to worsen as the province felt the impact of climate change, authorities said on Wednesday.&nbsp;"Most definitely, we can expect more fires, a longer fire season and more intensive fires. All of this can be linked to climate change," James-Brent Styan, spokesperson for Local Government and Environmental Affairs MEC Anton Bredell, told News24.&nbsp;In the past week, fires in Somerset West have caused more than R60m damage, while wildfires destroyed several historical buildings and two farms in Paarl on Monday and Tuesday.&nbsp;- PICS: Fires consume historic buildings in PaarlStyan said drought conditions were expected to continue in the province. &nbsp;"[We are expecting] more of the same, drier conditions will remain and increase. Rain fall may decrease," he said.&nbsp;Meanwhile, Western Cape Agriculture MEC Alan Winde said higher temperatures could be expected in the province.&nbsp;"I have no doubt about more fires in the Western Cape; it is going to get much drier in the Western Cape because of climate change. It is just going to get hotter and hotter," Winde said.&nbsp;Winde said that the province was preparing for the effects of climate change.&nbsp;"We have adopted a climate change plan to specifically assist the agriculture industry. It is going to be tough, but we are trying our best," he said.&nbsp;Call for change in behaviourStyan also believes that expected population growth would increase the pressure on the province's water supply.&nbsp;"The other major problem [facing us], is that we are expecting massive population growth. Up to&nbsp;2 million more people in the Western Cape in the next 10 years. Cape Town can expect another 1 million people by 2023," he said.&nbsp;"There is no more rain and only increased demand," Styan added.&nbsp;Styan said the long-term solution lay in members of the public changing their behaviour.&nbsp;"We rely on the public [to address this issue]: speak to your families to not start fires and be cautious. If the weather conditions look windy, perhaps don't have a barbeque that day. Behaviour change is the big thing; we need people to think differently," Styan said.&nbsp;Styan said there provincial government was concerned about the financial implications of the fire season, which is set to end in April.&nbsp;"We are very, very concerned: there are three more months of fires ahead, and the fires are very expensive," he said.&nbsp;"We are limited by funds, which are increasingly becoming less and less."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.