Iavan Pijoos, News24Tsakani Rikhotso Shimange (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The uncle of the man, who was allegedly shot and killed by a Tshwane Metro Police officer in Pretoria, says the justice system failed his nephew. WATCHPretoria - The uncle of the man who was allegedly shot and killed by a Tshwane Metro Police Department officer in Hatfield, Pretoria, says his nephew was too young to die and that his family is battling to cope with the loss. "You cannot cope when you lose... the one you love most, especially when [they] are still too young. Because according to me, he is the one that is supposed to bury us, not us bury him," Laccy Shimange said. Tsakani Rikhotso Shimange, 38, was shot during a roadblock, a few metres from the Department of Telecommunications and Postal Services building where he worked. He had just dropped off his partner, Sibongile Ntlwane, 37, in Sunnypark, Pretoria. The incident happened on January 6. His alleged killer, Constable Takatso Mashego, 26, was granted R5 000 bail by the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Friday. &nbsp; Mashego faced a packed gallery of angry family members and friends who left the courtroom disappointed. Music lover He stood in the dock with his hands behind him and his head bent down. His release on bail has angered Shimange's family and friends. "That is how the justice system works, so if it suits them it is fine. I can think of a lot of people who received bail today [Friday]. If they think it was fine for him to be out, let him go out," Laccy said. Laccy said, despite the hurt, they would always remember Shimange - known to his family and friends as "Oupa" - for his love of music. "Everybody who knew him knows that he loved loud music. I will always remember him for the Shangaan music that he played for us," he said. Laccy described him as a "joker" who made everyone happy. "He wanted to make everyone around him smile and be happy. I will always cherish that." Shimange's funeral will be in Limpopo on Saturday. Accused not a flight risk Earlier in court, Mashego's attorney Peter Jay read out an affidavit in support of bail. He said his client had no previous convictions or pending criminal charges against him. Jay said Mashego, who is a father of two with a wife expecting their third child, would suffer financial harm if he remained in prison. He said Mashego intended to plead not guilty to the charges. "The court should grant my client bail, unless it was in the interests of justice [not to]. He has no previous convictions and isn't a flight risk. He also poses no threat." The investigation officer, Raymond Mabasa, said in his statement that Mashego and his colleagues were conducting a stop-and-search operation at around 09:05 on January 6. According to Mabasa's statement, Mashego allegedly approached the vehicle, and "suddenly" a gunshot was fired. The bullet hit the driver of a Toyota Corolla in the chest. Mabasa said Mashego would not interfere with the investigation should he be released on bail. He did not oppose the bail application. He said the accused may be released on several conditions - including reporting weekly to the Mamelodi West police station. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.