Candyce.KrishnaPRIMARY and secondary schools the Fever interviewed on the lower South Coast are experiencing similar situations with regard to late admissions.Although registration for 2017 closed in October 2016, parents still arrived with their children on the first day of school, hoping they would be placed in the learning programme. G. Moodley, Marburg Primary deputy principal, said the main contributing factor to this issue is relocation. Parents decide to move their children from one area to another after registration has closed and a few simply procrastinate, he said.Moodley added that they have assisted some parents by placing their children in classes, however, there are still a large number of children on a waiting list. Jai Hind Primary principal, P. Dhanraj said the school could no longer accommodate Grade 1 pupils as classes were filled to capacity. We don t have the facilities to accommodate any more children in these classes. Desks and chairs are limited. If we admit any more children the quality of education drops, he said. Dhanraj added that parents needed to be pro-active and make the arrangements for their children to attend school when registration opens.I. Nair, Merlewood Secondary, deputy principal, said the school had accepted many pupils since opening. The few that could not be taken were put on a list so the department can help them find a place. Our numbers in Grades 8 and 9 are well above 40 per class, she said. S. Vallee, principal of Marburg Secondary said he had a number of late admissions, but was able to finalise the matter this week. Late registration has always been an issue for many schools. Some children relocate, some prefer to send their children to an urban school and others simply leave it for the very last minute, said Vallee. I have more or less an idea of how may extra pupils I am able to fit into a class so when parents arrive on the first day of the new year, I am able to assist. Parents have got to start making these arrangements for their children well in advance to prevent the child from missing out on weeks of work, and feeling unsettled, he added.Applying for admission for your child: Apply a year before at a school near you or a school of your choice (between 1 August and 31 October). Some schools open the application process earlier.To register the following documents are compulsory: application form from the school; official birth certificate; immunisation card; and if you are moving your child from one school to another, submit latest school report, and a transfer card.If your child is not a South African citizen, include the following documents: study permit; and temporary or permanent residence permit or proof that you have applied for permission to stay in South Africa.School fees School fees vary from school to school. If you cannot afford to pay you must make arrangements with the school. Although a school cannot refuse a pupil admission, they can take legal action against you for failure to pay any outstanding school fees.Forms to complete Application forms are available at schools. - Department of Basic Education24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.