Omega Moagi, The Witness  several accidents were reported in KZN over the past weekend including two fatalities in Impendle on Friday afternoon when a goods truck overturned on the R617. (File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     More than 8
000 arrests were made on the roads nationwide this festive season according to
the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC). KZN RTMC
spokesperson Simon Zwane said these arrests stemmed from an array of traffic
violations and criminal behavior across the country including drunken driving,
reckless driving, speeding and overloading. 
He said that KwaZulu-Natal was ranked as having had one of the highest
numbers of accidents in the country. ER24
reported several accidents in KZN over the past weekend including two
fatalities in Impendle on Friday afternoon when a goods truck overturned on the
R617.  According
to an ER24 press release the truck had carried three passengers including an
elderly woman and her daughter and although local police were on the scene for
further investigations it was believed that the driver losing control of the
truck was the cause of the crash.  ER24
spokesperson Werner Vermaak said the man was declared “dead on scene” while the
elderly woman died in hospital. “En route to hospital, the elderly patient’s
vital signs diminished and CPR efforts were immediately initiated, but
unfortunately after 20 minutes, no vital signs returned and the woman was
declared dead at hospital,” said Vermaak adding that the daughter remained in a
critical condition in hospital. KZN RTMC
said on Monday that the roads were still “very busy,” as motorists moved out of
KwaZulu-Natal into Gauteng from the early morning. Zwane said traffic levels
were highest in the morning and although the numbers subsided by the afternoon
they were expected to remain high until late last night.  He said the N3 recorded between 1 500 to 1 800
vehicles per hour. Zwane added
that although the roads were busy, traffic was manageable as the amount of holidaymakers
making their way back to Gauteng this year was split between the past two weekends.
“Some people left KwaZulu-Natal last weekend after Christmas and others are
leaving now after the New Year’s [long weekend] so at least traffic is more
manageable this year, but we still urge motorists to be safe, and not to speed.
It is better to be a few hours late than to be dead on arrival,” said Zwane. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  