Valene.GovenderShaun Naicker (standing) assists pupils (from left) Delivio Ramanna, Bonga Ndlovu, Amanda Govindsamy and Phindile Ndlovu at the Eagles iLearning Centre. Photo: supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories PUPILS from disadvantaged backgrounds struggling with learning at school or who want to improve their grades can register at the new Eagles iLearning Centre. The centre is one of the first to be opened in KwaZulu-Natal, but among several countrywide. Shaun Naicker, manager of the Eagles iLearning Centre in Ottawa, north of Durban, said: The project was conceptualised to alleviate the poverty levels in the country via education and empowerment. It is targeted at all disadvantaged South African pupils. The centre offers computer tablets with audio visual lessons loaded on them, which pupils from Grade 1 to Grade 12 can work through online after school at the centre. The lessons are designed by teachers across South Africa using the best South African educational curriculum content. The programme is also incentive based, which means that if pupils complete tasks they will receive points that may add up to them receiving a gift, which may be in the form of air time, meal vouchers, and so on. The incentive goals are there to stimulate and maintain interest among pupils. Pupils can attend as many classes as they like which runs from 4pm to 6pm daily. We also provide meals for them on a daily basis and counselling if they need it, said Naicker. Delivio Ramanna, a Grade 8 pupil, who has attended the Eagles iLearning Centre for the past four weeks, said: It has helped me understand so many concepts that I just could not grasp at school. Another pupil Phindile Ndlovu, Grade 6, said: Coming to the Eagles iLearning Centre has helped me prepare for the end-of-year exams. The cost per pupil per month is R60, which is used to cover overheads. This amount is covered by Eagles iLearning Centre fund-raising initiatives so that the programme is open and available free of charge to pupils. We simply want to make a difference in our country and believe that education is the key. The more funding we can get the more pupils we can assist in our community, said Naicker.Currently there are 20 pupils registered and the centre hopes to take up to 45 pupils this year. Anyone interested in registering or contributing to the funding of the Eagles iLearning Centre, must contact Naicker on 060 704 3782 or 032 537 6088 or email intercessors@praydurban.co.za - Supplied. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.