Thulani Gqirana, News24Acting police commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; The DA has called for acting police commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane&rsquo;s whole career to be investigated.The party on Thursday said it had submitted a report, compiled in 2013, to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate, detailing corruption in the forensic services, which at that time was headed up Phahlane. The report was compiled by CPN Forensic and Accounting Services after concerns were raised about unlawful practices taking place at the forensic division of the police. DA MP Zakhele Mbhele said the report, which included allegations of procurement irregularities, irregular appointments and a questionable birthday party disguised as a workshop, should form part of the ongoing investigation into Phahlane and his lifestyle."This regrettably places another cloud of suspicion over the office of the National Police Commissioner. Instead of focusing on fighting crime, and keeping our communities safe, SAPS leadership are embroiled in allegations and investigations," Mbhele said. The party also wanted the report discussed in Parliament. This is the same report that Phahlane addressed in December 2016, when he officially released its findings. This, he said at the time, was because the report was constantly rehashed "by certain individuals for their own purposes". Most of the allegations levelled against him and his department could not be verified, according to the report, some due to lack of information. Phahlane has been under the spotlight following a raid&nbsp;at his luxurious house. This week, it emerged that the police watchdog's investigation would be expanding into his and his wife's R4.3m fleet of luxury cars. Mbhele on Thursday said the DA was more determined than ever to end the rot in the SAPS and ensure the police were led by the best possible team. In order for that to happen, they said, the CPN report had to be dealt with.&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.