Angelique Serrao, News2415:20 UPDATE: News24 will be continuing with live updates for this unfolding story. Click here to get it as it happens.15:15 UPDATE:&nbsp;#Phahlane journalists are not allowed inside the estate. Estate security took registration numbers of our cars and pictures of all journos#Phahlane the original case against the acting national commissioner was opened by forensic investigator Paul O'Sullivan&mdash; Angelique Serrao (@AngeliqueSerrao) January 19, 2017#Phahlane the original case against the acting national commissioner was opened by forensic investigator Paul O'Sullivan#Phahlane in order to obtain a search and seizure warrant a magistrate has to see convincing evidence from investigators&mdash; Angelique Serrao (@AngeliqueSerrao) January 19, 2017#Phahlane in order to obtain a search and seizure warrant a magistrate has to see convincing evidence from investigators15:05 UPDATE:#Phahlane IPID received a search and seizure warrant from a senior magistrate in the Pretoria High Court15:00 UPDATE:&nbsp;#Phahlane Sable Hille estate security don't mess around. Bullet proof vests and camouflage uniforms&mdash; Angelique Serrao (@AngeliqueSerrao) January 19, 2017#Phahlane Sable Hille estate security don't mess around. Bullet proof vests and camouflage uniforms14:52 LATEST: The estate's gates have opened and Ipid officials are inside the property, says our reporter Angelique Serrao. A Tshwane Metro Police van has also arrived on scene. Pretoria - Police watchdog IPID will raid acting national police commissioner General Khomotso Phahlane's home in the exclusive Sable Hills Waterfront Estate, north of Pretoria, on Thursday. News24 is on the scene.IPID obtained a warning statement from Phahlane regarding a charge of defeating the ends of justice. Phahlane allegedly told the estate&rsquo;s manager not to co-operate with the watchdog's investigation. IPID is also investigating Phahlane for alleged corruption.In November last year, News24 revealed that the Independent Police Investigative Directorate was investigating Phahlane on a charge of defeating the ends of justice. It relates to an IPID probe into an upmarket house Phahlane built in the estate. IPID had been interviewing witnesses to determine how Phahlane, a career policeman, managed to afford the construction of a residence said to be worth about R8 million.- Read more: This is the police chief's controversial houseAccording to the estate&rsquo;s website, it is "tucked away within the thriving Bushveld landscapes" and "lies on one of the most luxurious and truly breathtaking estates this country has to offer".Situated on the banks of the Roodeplaat Dam, north-east of Pretoria, it has a gym with private trainers, tennis and squash courts, an Olympic-size swimming pool with sun deck, and a volleyball court. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.