Jeff Wicks, News24Bezweni Lodge burns as the fire goes out of control. (Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Strong winds continue to fan veld fires on the upper slopes of the mountain in Somerset West, with emergency services now classifying the fire as &ldquo;out of control&rdquo;.City of Cape Town Fire and Rescue Services spokesperson Theo Layne told News24 that a fire at Bezweni Lodge had now spread to neighbouring farms. &nbsp;READ: Somerset West fires under control&ldquo;At the moment the largest of them [the fires] is the fire above Bezweni Lodge. The fire has spread to neighbouring farms and it is not under control,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;It is still fanned by a very strong south easterly wind and our crews will remain here overnight and likely tomorrow to try and bring it under control but we are working with a vast area,&rdquo; he said.He said he had received reports of property damage but was not able to elaborate on the scale of destruction.&ldquo;We have had reports of property damage but we have not been in a position to go and conduct assessments. We know that one of the properties at Bezweni has been damaged but to what extent I don&rsquo;t know,&rdquo; Layne said.PICS: Fire ravages Somerset WestThe nearby Knorhoek area is being evacuated. Farmers are having problems evacuation their horses and earlier called for help and trailers to move the animals.On the Vergelegen side of the valley some structures on the farm are threatened. Working on Fire crews and fire tenders are in the area. The helicopters had to be withdrawn earlier due to the high winds and turbulence near the mountains. The smoke and ash is heavy in Somerset West itself and the bush on the eastern side of the Lourensford River is still burning quite near to houses.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.