Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni (File: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Kampala &ndash; Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni's recent "I'm not your servant" remark "should worry us all", an editorial comment by Uganda's Daily Monitor said on Sunday.Museveni left many in Uganda disappointed last week after he said that he was not a "servant" &ndash; for Ugandans &ndash; but a "political fighter". The veteran leader said this during the east African country&rsquo;s 31st Liberation Day celebrations in Kampala.&nbsp;"I hear some people saying that I am their servant. I'm not a servant of anybody. I am a freedom fighter. That's what I do. I don't do it because I am your servant. I am not your servant."I am just a freedom fighter. I am fighting for myself, for my beliefs," Museveni was heard saying in a video posted to Twitter by&nbsp;NTV Kenya.He continued: "I am not an employee, If anybody thinks he gave me a job, he is deceiving himself. I am just a freedom fighter who you thought could help you also."Watch the video below:His remarks, according to&nbsp;Chimp Reports, were seemingly directed at his longtime rival, Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) leader Kizza Besigye, who in his "Defiance Campaign" rallies has been quoted by the media as saying that Ugandans must cease to treat people in leadership positions as masters, but rather as servants.Besigye maintains that citizens are "masters of their leaders".&nbsp;An editorial comment by Daily Monitor said it was "disturbing" to hear the president proclaim before the Ugandans "who he beseeched for votes just a year ago" that he was neither their employee nor their servant.&nbsp;The report said that such comments coming from a leader of his stature, showed that he was not accountable to them and "this does not auger well for governance".&nbsp;Excuse me, did you say your servant? No please! President Museveni tells off Ugandans pic.twitter.com/C5ce4LVJOu&mdash; NTV Kenya (@ntvkenya) January 26, 2017Excuse me, did you say your servant? No please! President Museveni tells off Ugandans pic.twitter.com/C5ce4LVJOu24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.