Julian Jansen, Netwerk24Inge Lotz (File) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; The father of murdered Stellenbosch University student Inge Lotz is going to help one of the amateur forensic investigators who probed her death get his Master&rsquo;s degree in biomedical forensic science.Professor Jan Lotz says the facts brothers Thomas and Calvin Mollett provided in their books Bloody Lies and Bloody Lies Too &ndash; which are both about Inge&rsquo;s death &ndash; have supplied answers to "millions" of his questions, Netwerk24 reported.The 22-year-old&rsquo;s bloodied body was found in her apartment in Welgevonden, Stellenbosch, on March 16, 2005. She had been stabbed in the chest repeatedly and beaten over the head. She was doing her Master&rsquo;s degree in mathematical statistics.Her then-boyfriend, Fred van der Vyver, was arrested on a charge of murder. He was found not guilty in 2007 after a protracted trial. The court found police had fabricated evidence against him.In March 2012, Lotz offered a R1m reward for information which could lead to the arrest and conviction of Inge&rsquo;s killer. He hired experienced detective Piet Byleveld, but not even he could provide any answers.'Unspeakable tragedy'Meanwhile, the Mollett brothers, two amateur forensic investigators, began their own probe. They wrote two books in which they pointed out several contradictions/inconsistencies in the police investigation.Lotz on Friday told Rapport in a letter that their books had brought an end to his search for answers."After 11 years, we accept that Inge&rsquo;s killer will never be identified or brought to book. We, and the public who showed an interest in the case, will always have to form [our] own, subjective opinion of what had happened on that fateful day."Everything written and published will forever be part of the mystery surrounding this unspeakable tragedy."Lotz, a professor of radiology, described the Molletts&rsquo; books as "outstanding, scientifically sound" works and as "central to the whole process"."Of course the facts contained in the books have brought to an end my search for the truth about my child&rsquo;s death. Thomas Mollett is a highly intelligent individual with a unique analytical mind.'Scientific perspective'"I never doubted that I&rsquo;d help him financially if he enrolled for a Master&rsquo;s in forensic sciences at the University of Cape Town. In this way, I can thank them for everything they've done in the attempt to unearth the truth. It also gives me an opportunity to make a difference in this remarkable young man's life."I hope to be there when Thomas gets his PhD in forensic sciences as well."Thomas, 45, said he and his 49-year-old brother Calvin were "glad to have provided Professor Lotz with answers and explanations about some things over which he&rsquo;d had his suspicions and the new facts presented"."We never intended to 'solve' the case. All we wanted to do is to revisit it scientifically and although some deductions are inescapable, people can decide for themselves. We are hoping to present our facts to court and are prepared to speak to anyone about the matter."We revisited the case objectively, from a scientific perspective and with a lot of research. We are confident that some aspects have been clarified now, whatever that might imply. We will defend our finding anywhere, also in court. That, actually, is how we would like to see it tested."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.