Mpho Raborife, News24(Matshidiso Madia, Twitter) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - A young ANC supporter who braved the rainy weather on Sunday to celebrate the ANC&rsquo;S 105th anniversary said he wanted to see the party doing more for them.Khutso Morele from Burgersfort said he had left home on Saturday night to make sure that he did not miss the January 8th statement.&nbsp;He and his friends slept in the bus they had travelled in until the gates of Orlando stadium were opened. He said he was there to support the party because it had done a lot for black South Africans."[The] ANC liberated us from apartheid and our parents fought for us and we are where we are now as youth because of the ANC."Change the leadership&nbsp;Morele said, however, he was worried about the decision making of the current leadership. "What concerns us is our leadership and the kind of decisions that they make and some of the decisions they are scared to make."The ANC is busy losing members, but we love it and we support it...all the way from Limpopo to Gauteng."Morele said the party would gain more strength again once there was new leadership."Change the leadership. I support Cyril Ramaphosa 100%. It will be better under his leadership."Those who had opted to leave the party and join the opposition, should return and help the party retain its numbers, he said."We&rsquo;re going to go to the conference [in December] and elect new leadership as young people. Let's support it. They shouldn't leave, they should just endure."The 25-year-old said one of the biggest issues he had with the ruling party was its failure to commit to providing free, quality higher education to its people. The National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) did not equate to this, he said."They say they are providing us with free education through it but to me it's more like a loan because when you start working they are going to start taking 30% of your salary. The new leadership have to look at the issue of NSFAS."Financially assistedHe said government should work harder to ensure that deserving students were financially assisted."Free education has to be made available only for children who are suffering, not for those who can afford it."You find that those that can afford to pay are still being funded through NSFAS, just because they are connected to someone in government."After high school, Morele had to look for a job in his home village of Mapareng. If he had had things his way, he would have studied Electrical Engineering, he said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.