James de Villiers, News24 Simon's Town Residents Philip and Sue Kilroe's home have been destroyed by wildfires. (Kate Kilroe) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Simon's Town residents Philip and Sue Kilroe say they returned to their home on Wednesday to discover that it had been gutted.The Simon's Town blaze was one of two major fires attended to by firefighters on Wednesday evening, according to City of Cape Town officials, with the ongoing fires in Somerset West also taking up a great deal of resources.&nbsp; Kilroe said they arrived at the house on Wednesday afternoon to find it had been destroyed."We&rsquo;d left on Tuesday morning ... and only arrived back last night [Wednesday] to see our house burnt down," said Philip Kilroe."Our house is completely gutted; it has been completely destroyed."The house burnt down in Paradise Street, Simon&rsquo;s Town, at 17:00 on Wednesday.Wildfires had started in the area earlier that morning.PICS: Fires consume historic buildings in Paarl The property is insured. "There was a fire crew in front of our house; there is nothing anyone could&rsquo;ve done."READ: Residents evacuated as fires hit Simon's Town Simon&rsquo;s Town residents Philip and Sue Kilroe have lost their Simon's Town home to a fire. (Kate Kilroe)Three houses were damaged in the blaze.The property next door has been extensively damaged and a house down the street has a hole in its roof, but further than that, all the buildings are fine," he said.Simon&rsquo;s Town residents Philip and Sue Kilroe have lost their Simon's Town home to a fire. (Kate Kilroe)Kilroe said he is not worried about the damages."I think these things are worldly. There is no point at worrying about things that happened now," he said.Kilroe said he loved the community and would rebuild their home."We are all such a good community. I am sure everyone will come together and pull things together. We&rsquo;ll make the most of it," he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.