Iavan Pijoos, News24Radovan Krejcir (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Convicted criminal Radovan Krejcir was on Tuesday handed documents relating to the Czech Republic&rsquo;s bid to have him extradited to his home country.He appeared in the Kempton Park Magistrate's Court for his extradition case and for an alleged plot to escape from jail. Both matters were postponed to April 21.He was brought to court under heavy police guard, in leg irons and with a tracking device and stun belt strapped around his waist.The Czech Republic wants to extradite him from South Africa to stand trial on at least four charges of fraud.Prosecutor Johan du Toit told the court they had arranged with prison authorities to deliver the document to him. At his last appearance, Krejcir complained that authorities took away certain documents he had.Du Toit handed a brown envelope containing documents relevant to the extradition matter to correctional services officials to hand to Krejcir in prison.He had been behind bars in South Africa since 2013 and is serving a 35-year sentence for attempted murder, drug dealing, and kidnapping.The case relating to Krejcir's alleged escape plan was postponed for the court to determine if his girlfriend and co-accused, Marissa Christopher, could make contact with him. &nbsp;His co-accused are Solly Metlae and Marcello Harrison, three correctional services officials, and his two former lovers, Vanessa Naidoo and Christopher. They allegedly conspired to help Krejcir escape from Zonderwater prison in Cullinan.&lsquo;The most beautiful baby in the world&rsquo;Christoper's lawyer, Zehir Omar asked that the court grant Christopher 30 minutes with Krejcir in the presence of police guards, to discuss their two-year-old child. Her bail conditions included that she could not make contact with Krejcir."What man in this world is not allowed to talk to the mother of his child? It is the most beautiful baby in the world and the father is Radovan. He should be able to speak to Marissa about their child, it's called ubuntu," Omar said.Prosecutor Lawrence Gcaba said Omar needed to understand the protocols."This court first needs to familiarise itself with the contents of the evidence and the reasoning behind the bail application conditions. We also need to find out why the bail conditions were imposed," Gcaba said.Magistrate Prince Manyathi asked if Omar had any objections to the matter being postponed for the State to do so.Omar objected, saying he was ready for the trial to start at once.&ldquo;There is not one piece of evidence linking Marissa to the attempted escape of Radovan," Omar said.Omar insisted that the court should grant his request that his client talk to Krejcir. Manyathi said he could not make a decision without evidence in front of him.The matter relating to Christopher's bail conditions was postponed to March 23.Naidoo and Christopher are facing four counts of corruption and conspiracy to help a prisoner escape. Christopher was arrested in July, while she visited Krejcir at Zonderwater. She allegedly tried to bribe prison officials and smuggled cellphones into his cell between November 2013 and April 2016. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.