Neville Maakana, News24 CorrespondentFILE: Moussa, aged 17, having served 4 years in various armed groups before joining the Seleka rebels, sits in the Italian NGO Coopi reception centre for child soldiers in Bangui. (Xavier Bourgois, AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories TRUTH Coffee's Jos Vilandy is one of the country's top baristas. He talks to us about his painful childhood as a child soldier in Angola. WATCHAcornhoek&nbsp;- A former child soldier who lost an arm at the age of 15 while fighting in Mozambique&rsquo;s civil war,&nbsp;has sewed his way to a better income and now dreams of creating more jobs for the unemployed.Carlos Nyabanga, 47, who lives in a village outside Acornhoek, Mpumalanga, makes and sells clothes and uniforms for schools and churches and repairs sewing machines.&nbsp;&ldquo;I lost my parents, my arm and my childhood during the war, but I didn&rsquo;t give up on life. I told myself that I still had one arm and two legs,&rdquo; he says.When the 16-year civil war ended in 1992, Nyabanga was one of the 25 498 officially demobilised soldiers who were younger than 18 when recruited.&nbsp;Manual sewing machineHe came to South Africa in 1993. Six years later, he was given citizenship.&ldquo;I worked on the farms for many years, but was not happy with the meagre wages and the lack of job security. I quit the job because I yearned for a better life,&rdquo; he says.He used his savings to buy a manual sewing machine and painstakingly taught himself to sew, using his right foot to spin the device.Today, the married father of four, who works from a rented apartment, uses an electric sewing machine and makes around R10 000 a month.&ldquo;I am happy with my life. I have a roof over my head and I am able to buy food for my children.&rdquo;Nyabanga&rsquo;s dream is to register a formal business and create jobs for unemployed people. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.