Cara-Lee Dorfling, Netwerk24Shah Waseeullah is welcomed back in Port Elizabeth by family members. (Werner Hills, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth - After more than a year in a Saudi Arabian prison the third of four siblings from a Port Elizabeth family has been released, Netwerk24 reported. &nbsp;The Desai siblings were arrested in Medina on November 22, 2015, and held in the Zhahb&atilde;n prison. Two sisters, 30-year-old Huda and Yumna, 24, were both university lecturers. Their brothers Shah Waseeullah, 25, and 28-year-old Shah Waliyullah were university students at the time.&nbsp;Waliyullah and Huda were freed in October last year after 321 days and deported to South Africa.Waseeullah was freed on Monday after being held for a year and two months. He arrived in Port Elizabeth on Tuesday. &nbsp;"To this day I don't know why our children were arrested," their father businessman Nazier Desai said at the Port Elizabeth International Airport after welcoming his son back.&nbsp;Also waiting to welcome Waseeullah back was a large number of people from the Muslim community. Each of them wore a white scarf with the word "Freedom" on it.&nbsp;'Two weeks quickly changed to a year'A loud cheer erupted as he walked into the airport's arrivals area."I thought I'd be released after a week or so because they had no reason to hold us," he said, shaking his head.&nbsp;"But two weeks quickly changed to a year. And my sister [Yumna] should have been on the plane with me, but she's still behind bars." &nbsp;The sibling's mother Hafsa was once again in Saudi Arabia for the past three weeks to plead for her children's release.Visitors are only allowed to see prisoners once a month.&nbsp;"Fortunately the king was lenient and allowed four visits. We could unfortunately only get one of our remaining children released," a heartbroken Nazier said.&nbsp;He said there was no indication yet of when and if Yumna would be freed.Grateful for support"They are not saying anything about her, which I find strange. For 40 years my children and I didn't have any problems entering or leaving Saudi Arabia. &nbsp;"We would like answers, but it is more important now to get Yumna home."&nbsp;Huda is also very concerned about her sister. "My sister is a young and petite woman. Life in that prison is indescribable."&nbsp;Huda says the one good thing that's come from the media coverage of the story is that Yumna has been given a clean set of clothes and linen.&nbsp;"We are very grateful for the support of all South Africans, but especially the people from PE.&nbsp;"Because of the pressure from South Africa, the Saudi government knows it is being watched."Perhaps they will send my sister back with more than just a set of clothes. I was sent home without any of my possessions or money."&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.