James de Villiers, News24Cape Town Fire and Rescue Services fought a challenging battle against a fire in the Vredehoek area. Residents were advised to evacuate as firefighters attempts to control the fire were hindered by the extreme wind.Cape Town &ndash; More than 100 people have been evacuated from two farms in Paarl and the main building of the renowned Calais Wine Estate has burnt down as wildfires in the area spread.- Are you there? Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos. Drakenstein municipality fire head Derick Damons said shortly after 02:00, 137 residents were evacuated from the Olyvenbosch and Salem farms."They are being accommodated in a hall on the Salem farm, and the Dal Josaphat Primary School was gracious enough to accommodate people there."Blazes also burnt down the main building of the oldest wine farm in Paarl, the Calais Wine Estate, on Tuesday morning.Damons said strong winds fanned the flames."At 7 o&rsquo;clock this morning [Tuesday] the main house was destroyed by fires. Strong winds and the timber flooring and beams in the building helped the flames," he said.Wildfires started burning in the area on Sunday.On Tuesday, Damons said the fire was not yet under control."Strong gusty winds have fanned the flames," he said."We have aerial support. They could only be deployed this morning because of strong winds the past few days. We hope that the helicopters will help bring the situation more under control."Two military helicopters and 56 firefighters are currently on the scene.The Du Toit&rsquo;s Kloof tunnel was open, while the Du Toit&rsquo;s Kloof pass has been closed."The tunnel is open, but people need to be very careful because of all the smoke in the area," Damons said. The main house at the Calais estate which burnt down (Calais Wine Estate)&nbsp;Several other wildfiresThe City of Cape Town on Tuesday said that fires on Table Mountain near Vredehoek had been contained. Four buildings were damaged in the blazes.Several other wildfires have broken out around the Western Cape since January.Last Wednesday, two homes burnt down in Simon's Town.There was damage to several wine farms in Somerset West and Grabouw, and the luxury Bezweni Lodge burnt down.At the start of January, the historic homestead of Afrikaans poet Totius was destroyed in a fire.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.