Beatrice Shongwe, News24 CorrespondentSchool desks. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Mbombela - Twelve pupils who were kicked out of the Tikhontele Secondary School in Matsulu were given their 2016 reports with transfers and have been told to look for schools elsewhere because they are "bad boys".According to a teacher who asked to remain anonymous, the troublesome boys are in Grades 8 and 9."I don't think these kids want to be in school, they are always late and they disrespect teachers. One time I was in class teaching when a learner opened the door and told me to shut up. The whole class was laughing and I could not continue teaching. They smoke and stay behind the toilets most of the time," she said.But a concerned mother of one of the expelled boys said the school had called countless meetings after which the pupils were told to go home and wait for further notice."I am worried about the way in which the school is conducting this matter. When my child is wrong, I expect them to be disciplined. On Friday [January 20] we were called and I had to be absent at work, however nothing solid was said. Why do they preach so much about education, but our kids are kicked out of school?" asked the angry parent.She said she is very concerned that her child was not going to school.'Teachers must be respected'Fellow pupils confirmed the disruption caused by the some of their classmates."We are unable to get to class because they are chasing us. I really don't know what I have done to deserve this punishment. We are losing a lot on our studies and soon we will have to write exams and we haven't even started to learn anything," said a 19-year-old pupil in Grade 10.Department of education spokesperson Jasper Zwane said the decision to expel pupils came from the head of department."It is important for learners to respect teachers. However, when a learner is expelled it is a recommendation from the head of department. The learners should direct this matter to the school principal or the circuit manager," said Zwane.The school principal Bhekinkosi Nkosi refused to comment on the matter on the phone and did not arrive for a planned meeting.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.