Ruan Bruwer, Netwerk24The Audi's back window was smashed by the Ratel on the school grounds. The roof was dented and a back tyre burst. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Bloemfontein &ndash; A dad and his Grade 3 son at Bloemfontein&rsquo;s Grey College Primary were very nearly out of the school gates when their car was hit from behind by a runaway Ratel.The freak accident, in which Elrich Cameron&rsquo;s car was badly damaged, happened on Friday at about 13:20, Netwerk24 reported.Social media has been abuzz with pics of Cameron&rsquo;s car with its shattered back window, dented roof and right, back tyre which had burst from the impact.Cameron said there were a lot of children in and on the Ratel."One of the Army guys there said he suspected that one of the kids had accidentally released the handbrake," Cameron said.The Ratel and an SANDF Casspir had been at the school for the annual dad-and-son sleepover for Grade 0s as part of an exhibition with 'boot camp' as the theme.'Fair bit of damage'According to Grey Primary&rsquo;s principal, Jurie Geldenhuys, they were still waiting for a report on the incident and he couldn&rsquo;t say much."I looked in my rearview mirror and saw the Ratel bearing down on us, but we couldn&rsquo;t get out of its way fast enough because there was a car in front and another next to us," said Cameron."Fortunately Caiden (his son) and I escaped unharmed. We were just very rattled. I don&rsquo;t know what happened to the kids who had been in and on the Ratel, they&rsquo;d hotfooted it out of there."There is a fair bit of damage to my car. I will hear from the assessors today (Tuesday) if it can be repaired or if it&rsquo;s a write-off," said Cameron.He said he would take legal action to cover the damage, but he is yet to decide against which party.Geldenhuys said they had announced several times that the children should stay away from the military vehicles. The roof of the Audi was dented and the back tyre had burst. (Supplied)The accident scene was cordoned off. (Ruan Bruwer, Netwerk24) The roof of the Audi was dented and the back tyre had burst. (Supplied)The accident scene was cordoned off. (Ruan Bruwer, Netwerk24)24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.