Mahlatse Gallens Supra Mahumapelo. (City Press) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories As long as they abide by the laws of the republic and help to create jobs, we will work with them, says North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo when asked about the notorious Gupta family.WATCHJohannesburg - North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo and the provincial business forum are embroiled in a battle over two controversial songs calling for his resignation. The songs include one with a backing track accompanied by a poetic rendition of reasons why Mahumapelo must step down and the other is a vocal kwaito/house track. Both releases are gaining fame on WhatsApp and News24 understands that a CD will be released soon. "One compelling reason why Mahumapelo must resign is corruption &ndash; the premier has been put on scale and has been found wanting," say the opening lines of the first song. Listen to the song here: The song says the North West Business Forum and the people of the province call on Mahumapelo to step down before February 14. The ANC in the province has accused the North West Business Forum of producing and distributing the songs. 'They want to milk government' ANC provincial secretary Dakota Legoete told News24 that the forum's members were ANC members who had tried to stop Mahumapelo from becoming premier because they see him as a stumbling block to lucrative tenders. "They have gotten tenders in government before and given that they have been paid, they should be stable, but they want to milk government money and believe that Mahumapelo is a stumbling block," Legoete said. While the forum denies that it paid for the production of the songs its secretary Sello Mogodiri told News24 that it endorsed them. "It was the community that approached us and said we have a song to revolt against the anarchy. We listened to the message and it is a true reflection of governance in the North West," he said. The song also refers the R100m in game allegedly given to Southern African Rare Game Breeders Holdings by the North West government without a tender being put out. "There are many corruption scandals that involve Mr Mahumapelo, greed, abuse of power, nepotism and corruption &ndash; giving Wolmarans and Mike de Kock the North West government wild animals is a scandal," says the song. In 2015 the Sunday Times reported that Southern African Rare Game Breeders Holdings was set up by former Rustenburg mayor Matthews Wolmarans, former municipal manager Andries Boshoff and construction magnate Mike de Kock. 'The animals must be returned' Mogodiri said they agreed with the song and that this deal was a donation of expensive government game without any due process. "It has been in Parliament and they are discussing it...the animals must be returned to government but we want them arrested and prosecuted," Mogodiri said. The second song, a kwaito/ house tune, is about how Mahumapelo's power is coming to an end. Listen here: The ANC has dismissed claims of wrongdoing in the game deal, saying the deal was part of a government programme to try and get black business people involved in the game industry. "The game deal was sealed two years ago and it was audited and there were no signs of wrongdoing," Legoete told News24. He said the songs were "divisive, factional and with nefarious intentions". The ANC said in a statement that this was not the first time a song "tarnishing" the premier's name has been circulated. The party has threatened to take action. "The ANC is determined to get to the bottom of this and take those concerned to task, because such wicked actions are in effect causing more harm to the name of the movement," the statement reads. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.