Chester Makana, News24 CorrespondentMark Scott-Crossley. (Netwerk24 file) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Tzaneen - A decision on whether or not to grant Mark Scott-Crossley bail was postponed in the Lenyenye Magistrate's Court on Tuesday."The arguments were closed, now the magistrate wants time to study arguments," said police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo.Scott-Crossley launched a bail application after he handed himself over to police after an alleged attack on Silence Mabunda in December last year.During the incident, he allegedly hurled racial slurs at Mabunda and broke his cellphone before he allegedly ran Mabunda over with his car. Mabunda now struggles to walk without assistance.A warrant of arrest was issued for Scott-Crossley's arrest soon after the incident.He appeared in court on Tuesday seeking to be released to return to managing his farm in Hoedspruit.Cases withdrawnState witnesses told the court that there were cases against Scott-Crossley which had been withdrawn after settlements were made between him and the victims.Mojapelo told News24 that police did not have power to stop victims from withdrawing cases. &nbsp; "We are happy that his file was presented in court, as police we did not have power to stop victims from withdrawing cases," said Mojapelo. &nbsp; Scott-Crossley made international headlines in 2004 when he was tried and convicted for the murder of a worker whom he threw into a lion enclosure. &nbsp; The murder sentence was reduced after the appeal court ruled that the lower court failed to prove reasonable doubt that victim Nelson Chisale was alive when he was thrown into the lion's den. Scott-Crossley was released on parole in 2008. &nbsp; In the recent case, the magistrate said due to the nature of the arguments by the State and the defence, she needed time before delivering judgment on the bail application.Her ruling is expected next week Friday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.