Tammy Petersen, News24Members of Philisa Abafazi Bethu outside the Muizenberg Magistrates Court. (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The mother of an eight-year-old girl who was allegedly raped by a school taxi driver says residents of Seawinds will try and kill him if he is released from custody."People want to kill him. I know what this community would do. People are threatening to get him, should he get bail," the mother said outside the Muizenberg Magistrate's Court where the suspect, 47, made a brief appearance on Monday.The mother may not be named to protect the girl&rsquo;s identity.The man lives in the same street as the family. On Monday, he indicated that he would apply for bail during his next court appearance on January 13. The State would oppose this.Members of the NGO Philisa Abafazi Bethu picketed outside the court against the suspect&rsquo;s release."We do not want this perpetrator back in our community or around our children, as they would not be safe," spokesperson Sadia Hendricks said.The organisation believed all adults working with children should be vetted and screened, and urged parents to first do a background check on those who transport pupils.The mother alleged that the taxi driver had raped her daughter several times."It happened over two months, from Monday to Thursday, because his wife gets home early on Fridays. She was raped 40 times."Doctor confirms rapeThe man was arrested in November after the eight-year-old girl and a nine-year-old friend went to his house."He tried to make the friend kiss him and she refused. He gave her R4 and when she left he locked the door," the mother alleged."Her friend waited for her and asked why he had locked the door. My daughter told her he had made old fashion [had sex] with her again."A doctor examined her and confirmed the rape. Semen was found on the child, the mother said.The mother, who herself was molested as a child, said the man had wooed her daughter and convinced her he was her husband. He allegedly told her he would beat her if she told anyone about the rapes."She believes she is grown. She isn&rsquo;t our innocent child anymore. He took her childhood from her. She has become moody and violent. We thought he was just a nice guy, but he is sick."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.