Mpho Raborife, News24Go inside the new smart-school built by the Gauteng Department of Infrastructure Development at a cost of R83m...WATCHJohannesburg &ndash; The level of progress in education and excellence in public schools should be measured by looking at township schools, Gauteng Premier David Makhura said on Wednesday.Speaking at the opening of Nomzamo Madikizela-Mandela Primary School in Bramfischerville, Soweto, Makhura said the entire community had the responsibility to ensure that children attending the school were given support, in and outside the school."We want serious teachers, serious students, but we also want serious parents. We are a province that means business when it comes to the education of our children."This is a province of excellence. We want township schools to be places of excellence. If we want progress, measure it by the progress of its township schools," he said.The new school boasts 33 state-of-the-art smart classrooms, two computer labs, two science labs as well as sporting facilities. It cost the Department of Infrastructure Development R83m to build.Makhura warned parents on Wednesday that if they did not protect the school from vandalism, the government would not replace it.'This is our school'"There will be no school that will succeed without the community around it."We are building schools of the future. We are investing to make sure our children have a future very different from ours."We must declare war on the destruction of school infrastructure. Why are we allowing them to steal the future of our country?"If you allow them to burn down this school, you will not see another school like this in your lifetime. This is our school, let&rsquo;s take care of it."He said those who used the lack of service delivery as an excuse to burn down public institutions were merely acting for an organised syndicate. "And their days are numbered," he warned.Vikinduku Ntsele, a Grade 7 Mathematics teacher at the school, said having the smart classrooms helped keep the learners attentive in class and that he hoped the quality of teaching at the school would remain consistent and translate into a better life for the pupils."These resources must be utilised for the development of the community especially. So when we come here and work here, we must ensure that the community that we work in really grows."We are here for these kids. We must help them learn, so they can help their people."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.