Heilie Combrinck=Albertyn Primary s Grade 7 enviroclub learners (back from left) Anri Swart, Stephanie Kapp, Kaylan Bradley with Kay Hardy (general manager: The Waste Trade Company), Johanna Huiskens (teacher and coordinator of the school s recycling project), Ashley van Hingen, Denise Delport and Callon van Rhyn. In front are Monique Kleinhans, McKayla Thompson, Dillan Gerber, Johan Snyman, Emmy Nxayeka (schools project coordinator: The Waste Trade Company), Manie van der Merwe, Luzaan Knoetze and Jeanel Snyman. Photo: SUPPLIED Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories In Uitenhage Albertyn Primary is known for their dedication towards recycling. The school has won third place in The Schools Recycling Project, after a total weight of 4 533kg of recycled items was collected at the school.As part of the winning prize the school received a cash prize of R1 000, donated by Mpact Recycling SA.The project is based on the principle: Tell me and I ll forget. Show me and I may not remember. Involve me and I ll understand . Emmy Nxayeka, Schools Project Coordinator of The Waste Trade Company who runs the project said, We are so excited to kick the year off naming our top recycling schools. Looking back at 2016, in one year all of our schools managed to save an average of 8 800 trees. According to Kay Hardy, General Manager of The Waste Trade Company who runs the project, Anyone who follows us is aware of all the exciting initiatives we have to motivate all participants to recycle. We believe that our future lies in the hands of our children, and therefore we are committed to making this project sustainable, says Kay Hardy, General Manager of The Waste Trade Company which runs the project.According to Hardy, the project has shown considerable growth in the last 4 years, 2016 being the year with the highest average volumes per month.At Albertyn, teacher Johanna Huiskens is the coordinator of the recycling project. She said they worked very hard to collect and sort all recyclables which filled a whole room. But you are only as strong as your team and many hands make lighter work . With the help of The Waste Trade Company, Albertyn plans to upgrade its recycling facilities so that they can start fresh with the new enviroclub learners this year.Kabega Primary, recent winner of Plastic SA s Clean-up and Recycle Competition and winner of their category for The Top Green Organisations Awards, carried the winning flag for being the top recycling school in the Nelson Mandela Bay metropole for the last term of 2016 once again. They managed to collect a total of 12 990kg of recyclables and won R3 000 cash to plough back into green projects at the school. New entrant, Molefe Primary, won second place with a total weight of 5 738kg of recyclables. The school manages its own vegetable garden, which is used toward meals for the learners. They intend to keep winning in order to purchase a water tank for the school. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.