Chevon Booysen, People's Post (iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Despite her best effort to do her part to save water, a resident of Grassy Park says her complaints to get a water leak fixed have fell on deaf ears for more than a year. Faith Gordon, who lives in 1st Avenue, says she had reported the water leaking water meter just outside her premises to the City on numerous occasions, &ldquo;but every time I am told they will fix it, but nothing gets done&rdquo;.Gordon says when reporting the leaking meter she was sent from pillar to post. &ldquo;I call the call centre with a reference number that was given to me on the previous complaint. &ldquo;Each time you call you get a new reference number and they keep transferring my calls. Sometimes the calls get dropped while waiting on hold,&rdquo; she says.The resident says their gardens were always a beautiful sight to behold but now have to take low priority as they are law-abiding citizens. &ldquo;Since we received notices to save water and be mindful of our water consumption we have done so. And this is evident in our gardens, which have deteriorated. However, why are these complaints not being attended to? It has been more than a year already... It is wasteful,&rdquo; she stresses.Gordon adds that she was once told by the City&rsquo;s call centre that a third party had installed the meter and was responsible for fixing it.&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what is happening. It seems as if it&rsquo;s the people in the office who are not doing their job to get someone out and fix the meter. I don&rsquo;t even know how this leaking meter might be affecting my readings because sometimes you are not even able to see the reading due to the water on top of it,&rdquo; she says. &ldquo;Previously I had reported that my water meter cover had been stolen and this was replaced, but still the leakage was not attended to. &ldquo;The most recent call I made was on Tuesday 10 January and I got a new reference number again,&rdquo; she says. Following an enquiry from People&rsquo;s Post, the leak was eventually fixed on Thursday. Eddie Andrews, Mayco member South, confirms this.&ldquo;The City always endeavours to attend to official service requests, with reference numbers of the request, in a timeous fashion where possible,&rdquo; he says.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.