Eugene Gunning, Netwerk24 Nicola Pienaar (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories George – The mother of murdered Paarl woman Nicola Pienaar says she is relieved to have found some answers at last. Marlaine Pienaar-Vice told Netwerk24 that a police officer had phoned her on Sunday night to tell her that her daughter’s body had been found. "She told me that my daughter’s body had been found on the property of the suspect’s parents. He apparently stays with them." Pienaar-Vice said a post-mortem had already been done, but that the results were not available yet. "We will make funeral arrangements later. I can’t think straight at the moment. I want to know what really happened. "In a sense, it was a relief to have found some answers at last," she said. One of Pienaar's colleagues said she was an introvert. "However, there was a good understanding between us. It is a pity that such a beautiful child had to die in such a manner." Arrested in PE The 28-year-old’s body was found at a home in Paarl on Sunday evening. A 32-year-old man led officers to the premises around 23:00 on Sunday and showed them where the body was buried under rubble in the yard, Western Cape police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said. He would appear in the Paarl Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges of murder, fraud and car theft. An extensive search was launched after Pienaar disappeared from Paarl on January 5. She was with her 32-year-old boyfriend, Jaco Oosthuizen. Oosthuizen was arrested on a charge of car theft at a KFC outlet in Port Elizabeth on January 21, when he was spotted in Pienaar-Vice’s Peugeot. He appeared briefly in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court on Friday, before the case was transferred to Paarl. 'My daughter and I were close' Oosthuizen claimed he and Pienaar had left Paarl on January 5, that they had an argument and that he dropped her off in Oudtshoorn. When he was arrested, the car was packed with books, linen, clothes, and an axe. Pienaar’s jacket and scarf were her only belongings in the car. Pienaar-Vice, a Paarl psychologist, said she had last seen her daughter on January 5. "My daughter and I were close. She stayed at my practice in Paarl. She was at my house in Durbanville, Cape Town, on January 5. She went back to Paarl that same evening." Pienaar-Vice sent messages to her daughter’s cellphone, but there was no response. When she didn’t hear from her daughter, she knew something was wrong. She reported her missing to Paarl police on January 9.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  