Andre DamonsTlhalefo Khaile scored eight distinctions. (Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Bloemfontein - For one of Steynsrus High School's top matriculants it wasn't a question of whether he would pass, but rather of how he would pass.Get your matric results on News24And how he passed, was exactly what&nbsp;Tlhalefo Khaile, 17, had hoped for.Khaile received eight distinctions in Afrikaans, English, mathematics, physical science, life science, accounting, life orientation and drama, reports Netwerk24.It is the first time that Steynsrus High School, in the Free State, has had two learners with eight distinctions. Andrew Kharafu also earned eight distinctions.School principal Johan Neethling said he was very proud and excited about the two achievements.According to Tlhafelo, it took a lot of hard work."It feels as if I achieved my goal. I started studying a month and a half before the exam. That is how I was able to stay calm on exam days," he said.Tlhalefo plans to study accounting at Wits University in Johannesburg this year."Accounting and numbers are my passion. My ultimate goal is to become a chartered accountant," he said excitedly.&nbsp;The death of his father, Simon, a day after his final paper, motivated him to work harder. His mother, Mabatho, is unemployed and he also has a younger sister, Mamello, in Grade 9.&nbsp;He has several other talents and performed well in long jump, competed in the school's debating team, and sang in the school choir. He was also among the Free State's top 20 maths students."School was fantastic. I'm going to miss it, and especially my teachers."My recipe for success is to set goals for myself and then work hard to achieve them. I strive to always improve myself."His advice for 2017's matrics?"Be prepared to sacrifice your good times to work hard, but also take it easy when possible."24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.