Nosipho.Mkhize PhotoS: nosipho mkhize KwaDabeka librarians (from left) Muhle Mbense, Mbali Nxumalo, Joe Ncube and Goodness Zondi. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE KwaDabeka Library was officially opened in 1997 with just three staff members - Joe Ncube, Goodness Zondi and Bongani Hlela and was affiliated to the municipality and KZN Library Services.The library is on the KwaDabeka KK Hostel premises. The residents were concerned when the hostel implemented changes after it went from being a male-only residence to a family unit. KwaDabeka Library spokesperson Joe Ncube said: Families were concerned for their children in terms of having a place to study. A library was then established and has a big space for children to study in. He said the library has grown and improved over the years. We have grown in terms of staff members. We now have five staff members and three volunteers. We have introduced activities such as chess, umlabalaba and toys for children. We are the first library to provide text books for primary and high school pupils as well as tertiary students because of the high number of students we have at the library. We offer books in Afrikaans, English and isiZulu, children s picture books, holiday programmes every school holiday, videos, DVDs, and CDs. The holiday programmes include chess and umlabalaba tournaments, debates, poetry sessions and storytelling. He encouraged the youth to read more. Children nowadays turn to television social networks and games as part of entertainment, however, I encourage them to read often to stimulate their minds, increase their knowledge and be better readers. To be a member one should have proof of address, and ID and one or two references that the librarian can call in case of an emergency. Once a person has registered they are only allowed to borrow one material until their proof of address is verified. If the person has a legit proof of address they can borrow seven books, two DVDs, four CDs. The library is open on Monday from 10am to 6pm, on Tuesday and Friday from 10am to 5pm and on Saturday at 10.30am to 12.30pm. For more information, phone 031 707 7497. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.