Nokuthula.KhanyileThe overturned taxi on the N3 near Midmar Dam. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories ONE person was killed and scores injured in a spate of accidents in and around Pietermaritzburg from last Friday officials report.A man, believed to be in his forties, sustained moderate injuries last Friday afternoon when his truck jack-knifed off the N3 near the Ashburton turn-off. Emergency worker and fire services arrived on the scene and found a large truck and trailer halfway down a large embankment.ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said upon closer inspection, paramedics discovered the driver seated inside the cab of the truck. Recovery services quickly secured the vehicle, preventing further movement, while fire services carefully extricated the driver. Once extricated, he was assessed and found to have sustained moderate injuries. The man was treated for his injuries and thereafter transported to Mediclinic. On Sunday, a woman believed to be in her thirties, was knocked over by a light motor vehicle in Church Street, and died. When paramedics arrived they found the body of a woman lying in the middle lane of the road. A light motor vehicle was found parked in the slow lane a few metres away. Upon assessment, paramedics found that the woman had sustained numerous injuries and showed no signs of life, said a statement.Meiring said the woman was declared dead on the scene. An hour later emergency workers also attended another accident on the N3 near the Howick turn-off where 11 people were injured after a taxi and trailer overturned blocking two lanes on the highway.Paramedics discovered that 11 passengers from the taxi had sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate. Fortunately, no one sustained any serious or fatal injuries. After the patients were treated they were transported to various hospitals in the area. The driver later told authorities that the tyre apparently blew, causing the driver to lose control and over-turn.In another taxi accident on Monday, 11 people were injured after a taxi overturned on the N3 near the Midmar Dam. Emergency workers arrived on the scene to find the taxi on its roof in the middle of the road. Several passengers from the taxi had already climbed out of the vehicle and were walking around at the scene. Upon assessment, paramedics found that 11 had been injured. A total of 10 patients had sustained minor to moderate injuries while one sustained serious injuries. The seriously injured was provided with advanced life support interventions, said Meiring.It is believed that the driver of the taxi lost control of the vehicle, causing it to overturn.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.