Isabelle Coetzee, News24 A screengrab of a policeman pulling a woman at the Lentegeur police station. (YouTube) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Police are probing a scuffle which happened in the Lentegeur police station involving a police officer who manhandled a woman as she tried to resist, in an incident which was recorded and went viral on social media. As of Monday, the video footage had been viewed more than 96 000 times and had been shared at least 3 027 times on social media after being uploaded on Sunday morning. The video shows a woman in a white dress, who repeatedly shouts &ldquo;los my uit (leave me alone)&rdquo; as a police officer tries to grab her hands and move her to a different room. A Facebook user apparently took the video on Saturday evening when she went to the Lentegeur police station in Mitchells Plain to report an unsuccessful smash-and-grab that happened along the R300. In a Facebook post, the user said that the officer had sworn at the woman, who swore back at him, and then the officer asked her: "Are you swearing at me?" The video shows the officer walking towards the woman and trying to grab her arms as she walks backwards. He pushes and pulls the woman, who retaliates by hitting him with her fists. The officer eventually pulls the woman down a passage and the video clip ends. Five men and a boy are shown in the clip. They didn't interfere and didn&rsquo;t look surprised by the incident. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andre Traut confirmed that the incident had taken place on Saturday evening around 23:00. "The 23-year-old female was arrested and will appear in the Mitchells Plain Magistrate's Court for the charge of crimen injuria and resisting arrest towards a police officer," said Traut. Asked whether the police officer's actions were being probed, he said: "The incident is still under investigation."&nbsp;Prior to the video recording&nbsp;According to Hanif Loonat, chairperson of the Mitchells Plain Cluster, what happened before the video clip has not been taken into account by the public.Loonat clarified that the woman went to the police's community service centre after she found out that her boyfriend, who is a member of the Sexy Boys gang, had been arrested for drug possession.In a Facebook post, Loonat said: &ldquo;She started to abuse the members of the police department, using vulgar and derogatory language. She was warned to control her emotions as it was not acceptable but she continued to do so.&rdquo; &ldquo;It was then decided that she be charged for her uncalled actions. She refused to follow the SAPS member as requested to the holding cells. In fact she continued to be abusive and unruly,&rdquo; the post read. Loonat questioned why only a portion of&nbsp;what happened had been recorded.&ldquo;I want it noted that whilst I will not allow abuse of vulnerable members of our community, so I will not allow the abuse of SAPS members who dedicate their lives in protecting us.&rdquo;&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.