Jenna Etheridge, News24Jacobus Oosthuizen (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; Police have arrested the boyfriend of a missing Paarl woman after finding him in her car in Port Elizabeth at the weekend. Jacobus Johannes Oosthuizen, 32, was in Nicola Pienaar&rsquo;s Peugeot in the parking lot of the KFC in Cape Road in the city on Saturday, Eastern Cape police spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu said on Monday.The Port Elizabeth Flying Squad spotted the car after it was reported stolen. It was packed to capacity with his belongings and some of her clothing. He apparently told police he was her boyfriend.Netwerk24 reported that an axe had been found in the car.Pienaar, 28, was last seen at her mother&rsquo;s home on January 5.&ldquo;When we questioned him, he said they had an argument in Oudtshoorn. And he claims she got a bus back to Paarl.&rdquo;Netwerk24 further reported that sources close the investigation had examined CCTV footage which contradicted his story. Oosthuizen appeared on a charge of possession of a suspected stolen vehicle in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on Monday. The case was postponed until Friday for further investigation.Oosthuizen was being kept in custody at St Alban&rsquo;s Prison.A detective from the Western Cape was expected to take Oosthuizen back to Paarl soon.The HeraldLive&nbsp;reported that Pienaar worked as an assistant at her mother Marlaine Pienaar-Vice&rsquo;s psychology practice.Pienaar-Vice said the couple had been dating for 12 months.&ldquo;Not a day would go by without us speaking to one another. I find it completely strange that Nikki didn&rsquo;t mention she was planning to leave town with her boyfriend&sbquo;&rdquo; she told the publication.&ldquo;The relationship was still in its beginning stages. I could see that things were starting to become serious&sbquo; but I had no idea the two of them were planning to take the car out of town. She usually tells me everything.&rdquo;Anyone with information about her whereabouts could contact Crime Stop on 08600-10111.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.