Jan Gerber and Tshidi Madia  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Outgoing ANC NEC member Pule Mabe said even though his preferred candidate did not win, they have full faith in the elected leadership of the party.

WATCH Johannesburg – There will be a limit on the number of members of the ANC's national executive committee (NEC) who will serve in Cabinet. Providing feedback on the discussions of the ANC's sub-committee on strategy and tactics on Wednesday, Fikile Mbalula said there must be a balance regarding the number of NEC members and national working committee members serving in Cabinet. This was a proposal from the policy conference in July. Mbalula couldn't say how many NEC members would serve in Cabinet.  In October, the ANC veterans adopted a resolution that no more than eight NEC members should be employed in the Cabinet. Their reasoning was that limiting the number of Cabinet ministers in the NEC would end the grip of patronage on the party. However, another sub-committee resolved to uphold the ANC's current policy that the hiring and firing of members of Cabinet remain the President's competency, as per the Constitution. However, he has to consult within the liberation movement before making decisions.  "Internally within the ANC, the president consults with the officials. That position has not changed," said member of the sub-committee on Constitutional amendments, Dr Mathole Motshekga. He also said the idea of including how the ANC's MPs should vote was not included in the party's constitution. "All political parties don't allow people to vote according to their conscience because, before an issue is placed before Parliament for voting, there are political caucuses where matters are discussed and an agreement is reached within the party caucus," said Motshekga. The proposal was made after President Jacob Zuma survived a motion of no confidence vote via secret ballot in August. Some ANC members had refused to stick to the party line saying they wanted to vote with their consciences. "This matter did not even arise because it is dealt with within internal party processes," said Motshekga. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  