Alex Mitchley  National Police Commissioner General Khehla John Sitole. (GCIS) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria – Newly-appointed national police commissioner General Khehla Sithole has pledged his full support to police officers on the ground as they begin their festive season operations.  Sithole was speaking at the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Friday, before 136 police officers started an operation in keeping with Safer Festive Season operations across the country. He said police officers have his full support. "A true police officer’s fight is not because of what is standing before them, but because they love what is behind them. So, my first message is that I am behind you. No matter what happens during this operation," Sithole told police officers. "As we continue to execute this operation there’s on important aspect that I want all of us to look into and that is our safety. By the time we end this operation we, the members of the police, will still all be together." "We will always be standing behind you and we will always support you." Targeting criminals Sithole said no police officer should be sacrificed during the operations, adding that the police were not against the public and would be going straight for criminals.  "This is the time when our communities must enjoy their lives. This is the time when they should walk free in the streets. This is the time when our young people will occupy the public spaces and enjoy their lives freely, simply because we are here," the commissioner said. He reassured police officers that they were the country’s most valuable resource and that crime could not be fought with a demoralised workforce.    "What you must know is you are the most important resource to us. If you don’t believe it, take 11 roses and look in the mirror, then you will see the 12 most beautiful things in the world. You guys are beautiful. 'Dying for love' "What is worth living for and what is worth dying for is love and we love you guys." Sithole also emphasised the safety of police officers. "Police officers will not continue to die with their guns." Gauteng police commissioner, Lieutenant-General Deliwe de Lange, said festive season operations have already seen many successes, with more than 540 suspects arrested for hijackings, house robberies and business robberies.  "But for now, I’m saying those suspects are in the cells now. The hijackings went down, our house robberies went down, our business robberies went down since the launch,” said de Lange.  Around 830 additional suspects have thus far been arrested for theft out of motor vehicles and shoplifting, as police focus on malls and residential areas over the festive season.  "We will do everything we can do to protect our community." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  