Eben Etzebeth (Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     December 1 marks World AIDS Day. which focuses on HIV and AIDS awareness. Watch. WATCH Cape Town – Makhosi Khoza launches new party; a woman wrongly diagnosed as HIV-positive says she was ‘suicidal’; and Obama advises on social media use. Here are today's top stories: 'I was depressed and suicidal' - woman wrongly diagnosed as HIV-positive After being wrongly diagnosed with HIV, a mother of two says her difficult journey to acceptance has given her a greater understanding of the disease and how it affects all of society. Read more here Dlamini-Zuma wins Mpumalanga and North West nomination for ANC president The ANC in Mpumalanga has nominated Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma as its presidential candidate, however, it is likely not a true reflection of the province’s preferred candidate to replace President Jacob Zuma at the December elective conference. More here and here Makhosi Khoza launches new party, vows not to make same mistakes as ANC Outspoken former ANC MP Makhosi Khoza says the problem in the ruling party is that its leaders are not principled. Read here 'HIV doesn’t kill – stigma does' Although much progress has been made with the treatment of HIV over the past three decades, there is still stigma surrounding the virus. Read one woman's journey here 19.5 million people are receiving this treatment If you are diagnosed with HIV, you will be able to manage the virus with antiretroviral drugs.  Here's how they work 'The dream has turned into a nightmare': Zimbabweans respond to new cabinet Zimbabweans have been sharing their disappointment over news that a new cabinet appointed by President Emmerson Mnangagwa has not made a break with the past. More here #GuptaLeaks: How family hijacked (and then lost) a Lesotho diamond mine In August 2014 Lesotho Prime Minister Tom Thabane appointed Atul Gupta as an “economic investment envoy”. Thabane said ANC president Jacob Zuma had introduced him to the Gupta family and he had enlisted them “to help scout for investment” for the country. Fin24 has more here Etzebeth: We don't need special motivation The Springboks play their last match of the season on Saturday against Wales in Cardiff, but captain Eben Etzebeth said his side will not need any extra motivation for the clash in the Principality Stadium. Read more on Sport24 Obama says 'think before you tweet' Former US president Barack Obama said that social media powers like Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter are leading to "snap judgements to complex issues" and warned leaders to think before tweeting.  Read here PODCAST: ANC going down to the wire In this week's episode – the countdown is on to the ANC's elective conference.  Listen here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  