
        The murder trial of property mogul Jason Rohde has been postponed until February 5, 2018, as witnesses from Melbourne are said to testify via CCTV in the Western Cape High Court.

     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 #Rohde trial postponed to 5 Feb. His new bail conditions include reporting to Plett police several times a week, Stellenbosch mag still has his passport, he can't go near international departure points. If goes to Jozi, must tell IO, report to police there @TeamNews24 He is asked if he would have intervened if the man was kicking or hitting the woman with a fist. He says he would not have been able to handle two people, so would have called for back up. But there was no need because there was no crying or fighting between the two @TeamNews24 Mihalik is laying the groundwork for a question over Mabeta's statement taken on 29 July. Asks if he was in "sound and sober mind", whether statement was read back to him etc. He is asked about the language of the statement - he says he made it in English @TeamNews24 Mabeta is speaking through an interpreter whose name I will get during the break @TeamNews24 Mabeta says he saw that it was a disagreement and after the man pushed the woman, she moved backwards and they continued walking #Rohde @TeamNews24 Mabete said that he saw a couple while on patrol, and he saw a man push a lady. The lady was in a gown, the man in black pants @Rohde @TeamNews24 Mabeta was on duty as a security guard at Spier wine farm, starting 6pm, 23 July 2016 @TeamNews24 Dr Abrahams notes the numbers of the pics of the blood on the pillow in the #Rohdes' suite that she couldn't find yy. Says she did not manipulate pics or information. A soft object such as a pillow has been suggested by her as "instrument" for smothering @TeamNews24 Dr Abrahams says that some of the authorities that were quoted were not given to her in writing, and in one study she pointed out defects. She was also not given "every world authority" @TeamNews24 Dr Deidre Abrahams is accused by #Rohde defence of ignoring every single world authority in medicine that was put to her re Susan's autopsy. @TeamNews24 Jason #Rohde ahead of the final stretch of cross-examination of the pathologist who oversaw the autopsy on his wife Susan. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/QAu7uLxrEP Pathologist insists Susan Rohde was strangled Susan Rohde was strangled and smothered and would have been "overcome" quickly, the Western Cape High Court heard. Dr Dierdre Abrahams, the chief pathologist who oversaw the autopsy conducted on Susan’s body, was testifying in the trial of Susan’s husband, Jason, who is accused of her murder. Pathologists battle it out in Rohde murder trial The pathologist who conducted a second autopsy on Susan Rohde, at the request of her husband’s legal team, omitted or missed vital information that pointed to manual strangulation, the Western Cape High Court heard. In the witness stand was Dr Deidre Abrahams, the Western Cape government’s chief of forensic pathology based in Paarl. Abrahams effectively tore to shreds the report of KwaZulu-Natal pathologist Dr Reggie Perumal, who conducted the second autopsy on Susan’s body. She said Perumal's report mentioned the history of the case at the time, that she had hung herself, before he even conducted the autopsy. Susan Rohde was strangled to death - chief pathologist Susan Rohde may have spent her last moments swallowing blood, battling to breathe and in pain after suffering severe blunt force trauma to her ribs, according to testimony presented at the murder trial of her husband Jason in the Western Cape High Court. "I think this person might have been in pain after this injury," testified Dr Deidre Abrahams, who chose to refer to Susan, not by her name. "The person was alive, breathing...," said Abrahams, when asked by prosecutor Louis van Niekerk to comment on the physical effect Susan's injuries had on her body. 
                Jump to
                top
            