Nombulelo Manyana PHOTO: Screengrab/ @CICA.CrimeIntel 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Footage of a robbery in a home in Florida, Johannesburg has sparked outrage on social media. In the CCTV clip, two armed men are seen running into what looks like the sitting room of the house, where they shoot at a woman and a child.  Fortunately, the two manage to flee. The man then tries to remove the TV mounted on the wall, but he is interrupted by the male home owner.  The robber then shoots at him and the man falls to the floor. In the post, which was put up by Crime Intelligence & Community Awareness (CICA), it’s alleged the man was shot in the head. The second robber joins in and they chase the man out of the living room while pointing a gun at him. One of the men then violently rip the TV off the wall, while the other continues to shoot at the family.   At this point, the video then switches to CCTV footage, which shows the men escaping in what has been described in the post as a blue Toyota Corolla.    According to police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele, a case of house robbery and attempted murder has been opened. “It is alleged that the family was in the house when they heard a noise coming from outside at the gate," he told YOU. “The man went out to check what was happening, that is when two people overpowered him and entered the house." The men were able to get away with a TV, Makhubele added.He also confirmed that two of the family members were injured during the robbery. One was shot in the upper body while the other was injured when they tried to escape the robbers.Both are currently in hospital. No suspects have been apprehended and police are still investigating the incident.  The video has been viewed more than 29 000 times on Facebook and has sparked fury among viewers. “I can’t even begin to imagine how traumatised this family is,” one commenter wrote. “This fam was unarmed and helpless, why shoot at them?”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  