Marizka Coetzee PHOTO: Facebook 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - A 16-year-old boy has died after allegedly attempting to escape from a bakkie which was speeding along the N1 highway.  Details surrounding the incident have not yet been confirmed, but according to the Roodepoort Record, Jason Kruis died on Tuesday after leaping from the vehicle after being kidnapped. Jason, a pupil at Hoërskool Florida, and two other friends are believed to have been walking in the Discovery area when a bakkie pulled up next to them and the driver offered them a ride.  After the boys refused several times, "a big muscular man, got out, grabbed them and told them to 'get into the f*****g car'," reported the community paper, which claims to have obtained a sound clip of one of the three boys after the incident.  The boys got in and the driver sped off, eventually getting on the N1 highway heading towards Pretoria, where he reached speeds of up to 220km/h, the boy said in the soundclip. But the driver lost control of the vehicle, careering off into a ditch, and Jason tried to jump to freedom. When the bakkie stopped, the other boys jumped out too, but found their friend unconscious and bleeding.  Their alleged kidnappers fled.  According to ER24, paramedics arrived at the scene at about 01:00. The two boys were found nearby. "A 16-year-old boy was left critically injured... when he allegedly jumped off the back of a moving bakkie while driving along the N1 highway near the Malibongwe Road turnoff in Randburg," ER24 said in a statement.  Jason was taken to Sunninghill Hospital, where he died hours later.  Friends and family have taken to social media to express shock and sadness after the tragedy. "You did not deserve it," wrote the victim's cousin, Roeleen Cross, on Facebook. "I am so angry with the world. My heart is broken. It's not right, not our Jay." Roeleen told YOU that even the family has yet to uncover what really happened.  "My uncle is in a state. He does not talk at all about what happened," she said. YOU has approached the Florida police for comment, but they have not responded.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  