Caster Semenya and her wife Violet Raseboya. (Twitter) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     An outbreak of a food-borne bacterium in South Africa has sent 557 people to hospital, and caused 36 fatalities. Watch. WATCH Cape Town – President Jacob Zuma’s deadline extended by Shaun Abrahams; New York rocked by pipe bomb explosion and The Blitzboks have slipped behind New Zealand to second on the overall World Rugby Sevens Series standings.Here are some of today’s top stories: Lawyer for Jacques Pauw, News24 journalist demands full disclosure on probe The legal team for investigative journalists Jacques Pauw and Pieter-Louis Myburgh has demanded full disclosure from the police on the nature of their investigation against the pair. Read more here Pregnant woman dies of listeriosis A pregnant woman has died of the foodborne illness listeriosis, the Gauteng Department of Health said. Read here Metrorail services on Cape Town central line remain suspended Metrorail announced that its central line train service remained suspended until further notice as commuters struggled to get to and from work using alternative modes of transport. More here Two years of wedded bliss – and Caster and Violet still look as loved up as ever! It’s definitely a festive season ahead for South African gold medalist Caster Semenya and her wife, sprinter Violet Raseboya. See pics here OR Tambo 'airport-following' suspect killed in shootout One man was killed and two others arrested following a car chase and shootout on the N3 highway near the Marlboro offramp in Johannesburg. More here My son is unstable, says father of son accused of domestic worker rape, sex acts with dogs A 41-year-old man who allegedly raped a domestic worker several times and forced her to perform sexual acts with his dogs is mentally unstable, his father contends. Read more here Blitzboks slip behind NZ in overall standings The Blitzboks have slipped behind New Zealand to second on the overall World Rugby Sevens Series standings. Sport24 has more here Pipe bomb strapped to man explodes in NYC subway, injuring 4 A pipe bomb strapped to a man went off in the New York City subway near Times Square, injuring the suspect and three others at the height of the morning rush hour, law enforcement officials said. Read here Shaun Abrahams extends Zuma's deadline for representations on corruption charges to end of January The deadline for President Jacob Zuma to submit his fresh representations to the National Prosecuting Authority has been extended to the end of January. More here Mugabe's fall 'was just a moment of false hope and illusions' Saturday the 18th of November 2017 shall forever be remembered as the day which inscribed an indelible feature in the history of Zimbabwe. On that day, an entire nation conspired to run away from Satan in order to seek refuge in and surrender its soul to Lucifer. Read here Court ruling gives a glimpse of life under Ramaphosa The decision by the North Gauteng High Court that the "resignation" of former National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) head Mxolisi Nxasana and the subsequent appointment of Shaun Abrahams to the position were unlawful has pushed our embattled president into the spotlight regarding his considerations when making those key appointments. Read more from Ralph Mathekga here Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  