Tshidi Madia Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. (Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria - The ANC in Gauteng has become the fourth province to put its faith in Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. He received 374 nominations to become the party’s next president when Jacob Zuma steps down at the ANC's National Elective Conference taking place in 14 days time. Ramaphosa and former African Union chairperson Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma are the front-runners in the race for leadership of the 105-year-old liberation movement. Ramaphosa is also the preferred candidate for the Western Cape, Northern Cape and the Eastern Cape, while Dlamini-Zuma came out tops in the Free State, the North West and Mpumalanga. 446 branch general meetings took place throughout the province's 5 regions. ALSO READ: I will pledge my loyalty to whoever becomes ANC leader  Lindiwe Sisulu was nominated for deputy president, KwaZulu-Natal's former chairperson Senzo Mchunu received 341 nominations for the secretary general position, Gauteng ANC wants Vuyiswa Tulelo to become his deputy, while the province's own chairperson Paul Mashatile got 384 nominations to become the ANC's next treasurer general. Current secretary general Gwede Mantashe received 328 nominations for national chairperson. The crowd cheered and chanted "ANC" as their provincial chairperson's nomination was announced. "We must restore the power of the branches," said chair of the ANC's elective commission Sindiso Mfenyana. He added that they took the nominations from the branches to the national office to avoid any tampering with the wishes of members of the party. The province also nominated 250 names it wished to see make up the party's national executive committee. The additional members included Mondli Gungubele, Carl Niehaus, former Johannesburg mayor Parks Tau, former Tshwane Mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa, Zingiswa Losi, Humphrey Mmemezi Matthews Phosa, former president Kgalema Motlanthe and disgraced former Emfuleni mayor Simon Mofokeng. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  