Jeanette Chabalala SA President Jacob Zuma. (Mujahid Safodien, AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The Freedom Front Plus wants newly-elected president of the ANC, Cyril Ramaphosa, to recall President Jacob Zuma before February 2018. Rampahosa should be the one delivering the State of the Nation Address on February 8, FF Plus leader Dr Pieter Groenewald said in a statement on Monday.  - FOLLOW THE LIVE UPDATE "If Ramaphosa does not recall Zuma, his hands will essentially be tied behind his back and Zuma will have one court case after another so as to keep plundering state assets and ensure that all the rotten-apple ministers are retained," Groenewald said. He also added that Ramaphosa should "execute the [North Gauteng] High Court’s ruling by replacing the National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP), Shaun Abrahams, with someone who is competent and unbiased, such as former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela". "He will have to repudiate Zuma’s claims about free higher education in order to relieve the pressure on the Treasury and do away with the false expectations that were created. READ: Ramaphosa's election 'too little, too late' - Maimane "He must call the nuclear programme to a halt and clear up all the uncertainty in that regard. "He will have to reshuffle the Cabinet and replace all the incompetent minsters (rotten apples) with ones that are fit for the job," said Groenewald. Ramaphosa is the 14th president of the ANC after 2 440 delegates voted for him to lead the country’s governing party for the next five years. The losing candidate, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, received 2 261 votes. Groenewald said Rampahosa has a "steep" road ahead of him and his way of addressing challenges will determine if he will succeed in saving the country. "In the short term, Ramaphosa’s election will boost investors' confidence and may even prevent a further downgrade to junk status, but if he wants to gain confidence in the long run, he will have to take some drastic steps," he said. Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  