Jan Bornman New president of the ANC Cyril Ramaphosa snaps pictures during the announcement of new party leadership at the ANC national conference at the Nasrec Expo Centre. (Alet Pretorius, Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA) has welcomed the election of Cyril Ramaphosa as the new president of the ANC, saying it believed he was the best candidate to deal with state capture, corruption and gross maladministration. OUTA, which submitted "volumes and volumes of documents" earlier this year when it laid charges against a number of people relating to state capture, has been vocal about alleged state capture by the Gupta brothers and other government officials. Following Monday’s announcement that Ramaphosa would take over from President Jacob Zuma as leader of the party, the organisation's CEO Wayne Duvenage said he believed Ramaphosa was the person to get the country back on the right track. Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference. "Of all the contenders for the ANC leadership, it was Ramaphosa who appears most willing to acknowledge and tackle the corruption scourge that has cost our nation dearly over the past decade under Jacob Zuma's rule," he said. The organisation said although Ramaphosa was elected, it doesn't mean that the fight against corruption was over. "The ANC's internal election battle shows that the party is still riven with factions and the state capture group remains extremely powerful. There is no easy solution ahead," Duvenage said. "Ramaphosa's first real test in the anti-corruption war will be the appointment of a National Director of Public Prosecutions. This is an urgent and crucial matter and will give a clear indication of Ramaphosa's ability and willingness to clean up," he said. Duvenage said he believed Ramaphosa was the right person "to exercise the moral courage" to hold corrupt leaders to account. "This we believe has a greater chance of becoming a reality, especially in the NPA and the Hawks, now that Cyril Ramaphosa is in the driving seat of the ruling party," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  