Kaveel Singh KZN ANC chairperson Sihle Zikalala. (City Press)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – KwaZulu-Natal ANC provincial chairperson pulled no punches at the Durban ANC rally on Saturday calling Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa desperate.  "Cyril Ramaphosa's desperation doesn't scare me. It is the very same desperation he showed in 1994 when he was not picked as the deputy president of the country. He was the secretary general, he left," Zikalala said in front of top leadership at the Sugar Ray Xulu Stadium.  Zikalala said he was disappointed at hearing Ramaphosa's comments on Fezekile Kuzwayo - also Khwezi. He criticised Ramaphosa for not speaking up when Khwezi first spoke out. Kuzwayo accused President Jacob Zuma of raping her in 2005.On Thursday evening, Ramaphosa was interviewed by 702's Karima Brown, who pressed him on whether he believed her.At first, Ramaphosa said he had to go with the outcome of the court case in 2006, in which Zuma was acquitted, but he also had to take heed of what Khwezi had said, and that he had sympathy for her.After Brown again put the question to him, Ramaphosa said he understood how difficult it was for women to come forward with allegations of sexual violence."Yes, I would believe her," Ramaphosa eventually said. Zikalala said it was wrong to speak about the dead, and criticised Ramaphosa for using Kuzwayo to gain votes during the party's upcoming elective conference. "It's true that it's wrong to talk about people who are no longer living to try to win votes, but I agree when they say that if comrade Cyril saw that what Khwezi was saying was the truth, then why was he quiet? Why is he speaking out now?" He added salt to the wound, saying Ramaphosa was the only leader in national leadership who didn't attend the inauguration of former President Nelson Mandela.  "That is a fact, he didn't go... because he was bitter and unhappy that he wasn't picked as deputy president. So this doesn't surprise us, they don't know what to do, the numbers aren't coming together, they are running to the courts, they want this conference to be stopped." Zikalala added that Ramaphosa and his supporters were saying that the KZN provincial executive would collapse before the elective conference.  "I want to know who was paying for this case that cost so many millions." Aggrieved KwaZulu-Natal ANC members legally challenged the results of the party's 2015 provincial conference and won. ANC member Lawrence Dube and four others brought the court case against the ANC in May 2016. The ANC members challenged the results of the conference that saw incumbent chairperson Sihle Zikalala replacing former premier Senzo Mchunu. Mchunu is believed to be part of Ramaphosa's presidential campaign, and vying for the position of secretary-general. Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  