Boipelo Mere The late Batlang ‘Chippa’ Bokala.Photo: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Kimberley Masters League and the Bokala family are still reeling from shock after the sudden death of their associate and loved one, Batlang “Chippa” Bokala (47). What has saddened the league even more is the fact that Bokala passed away on Saturday (09/12), a day before their annual prize- giving ceremony at the Galeshewe Housing Support Centre. Bokala died at his home after what the family described as a sudden collapse. His passing is regarded by many as a tragic loss, as the whole of Galeshewe’s Ditake Street, where he lived, regarded him as a father figure. It is said that he would take on everyone’s problems, on top of his own. He was a staunch Orlando Pirates supporter who never missed a single opportunity of owning every new jersey of his favourite team. “Chippa” Bokala was born and raised in Kimberley, where he completed his primary schooling at the Tshiamo, Kim Kgolo and Sol Plaatje primary schools. He then proceeded to the Tshireleco High School for his secondary education, where he started to take his soccer career more seriously through joining one of the most powerful local football teams, the Arsenal FC. During that time he also participated in the development of soccer leagues. He moved to Mahikeng to matriculate, after which many other opportunities became available in his soccer career. “We have really lost a true gentleman and a passionate individual,” says Rebecca Bokala, one of Chippa’s ten siblings. “He was not only passionate about soccer, but also about his dress style and the space he lived in and he was a highly religious person. “He now left a gap, as we have always been united as our parents left us when they passed on.” He is also survived by his daughter, who was the apple of his eye, and shared everything with. Bokala was known by everyone for his passion for soccer, and everyone knew that he was at the soccer stadium on Sundays. His memorial service will be held on Thursday (14/12) at a venue to be confirmed. He will be buried on Saturday (16/12).   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.