Mahlatse Mahlase Solly Mapaila, Jeremy Cronin and Blade Nzimande during a South African Communist Party (SACP) media briefing. (Madelene Cronje, Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Bloemfontein - The Economic Freedom Fighters has slammed the South African Communist Party for joining forces with the African National Congress to govern the hotly contested Metsimaholo municipality in the Free State. The red berets said on Friday that when the SACP was contesting the elections - the first time the party stood for elections on its own - it promised voters it would be an alternative to the ANC government. However, it had now agreed to co-govern with the ANC after none of the parties contesting the election managed to win an outright majority in the by-elections held in November. READ: SACP governs its first municipality The SACP is now governing the municipality after reaching a coalition government agreement with the ANC and three other small parties. The party secured the position of mayor on Thursday, in the second council. Lindiwe Tshongwe, who the EFF claims only received 10 votes in her ward, is the municipality's new mayor, while the ANC's Thabo Mabala took the position of speaker. The position of chief whip of the council went to Metsimaholo Community Association's (MCA) Victor Nyembe. 'Fraudulent, disingenuous electoral practice' The SACP and ANC coalition was also supported by the African Independent Congress and Forum 4 Service Delivery. The EFF unsuccessfully proposed councillors to contest the three key positions. It has accused the SACP of returning the ANC to power through the back door. "The EFF notes the SACP's co-operation with the ANC in Metsimaholo as a fraudulent and disingenuous electoral practice meant to con the people of Metsimaholo. This means it was never a genuine alternative to the ANC, rather a decoy meant to mislead the votes," spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said in a statement. The EFF claims it was initially involved in talks to form a coalition government with the SACP but pulled out after the SACP demanded positions but never engaged on policy. "They even asked the EFF to request the DA to vote for them so they can become government. The EFF, however, refused because in principle, [the] SACP must directly speak to the DA if they want their votes and not get them through an unprincipled back door," Ndlozi said. The Free State municipality was forced to hold by-elections after the fragile coalition government between the EFF, Democratic Alliance and MCA collapsed. The provincial government was then forced to dissolve the municipality after it failed to approve its budget. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  