Nicole Mccain
 @Nickymccain Green Point residents are receiving a security boost – in the form of eight licence-plate recognition (LPR) cameras installed by the Green Point Improvement District (GPCID). The LPR cameras provide a means to spot crime in realtime and to identify criminals and their vehicles. The system, already in place along the Atlantic Seaboard and in the City Bowl, allow crime-fighting organisations to track syndicates and attacks on ATMs, home break-ins, bank robberies and break-ins at local ­businesses. Vehicles can be tracked through the network and criminals can be arrested when entering another area with LPR cameras. The cameras have been installed and are providing a live feed, explains GPCID CEO Marc Truss. “LPR cameras are of benefit to all law enforcement agencies by tracking any vehicle that may have been involved in an act of criminal intent. “This could be expanded to include traffic offences – it is a worthwhile addition to crime prevention,” he says. ConnectedThe system will be managed by the Sea Point Improvement District and will be used in partnership with other LPR user groups and improvement districts, as well as police, explains Truss. “[The cameras] will allow for an early warning in that, if the registration has been loaded on to the system, we can track the movement from far away – in the next suburb or town as the LPR cameras are integrated onto a larger network of users. “On the other hand, we too can track a vehicle purely by its proximity to a crime or from intelligence gathering. “It will enable the responders and law enforcement members to act in an efficient and effective manner, leading up to a stop-and-search, detention, profiling, arrest and then hopefully sentencing in accordance to the crime. “LPR can also be used to oversee an area by monitoring the movements of vehicles to and from, providing live data which can be used to assist with traffic management,” he says. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  