Vuyo Mkize Don't want to gain weight? Stick to these types of alcohol. 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Work is out and so is school, and you are probably tempted to leave your children to their own devices – such as playing on their tablets and watching TV.  Playing on their own while you relax with a beer or a cocktail should be fine, right? Wrong. Turns out, playing with your child could be an added bonus to their social, emotional and cognitive development. The holiday season is the best time to take advantage of your family’s availability to play. Parenting expert Amanda Rogaly, swears by it. “There are many benefits around playing with children. Not only is it a bonding experience with them, but this is the time when they learn the most important life lessons from interacting with and watching you. They learn and mimic how you interact with other people, how you solve problems and how you place value on people and items around you.” The Child Development Institute advocates this quality time between children and parents, stating that it’s an innate craving children have and it makes them feel special. Parents are encouraged to find time to spend playing with their children on a regular basis.  The institute advises that parents include one-on-one play sessions with each child and group time with all of the adults and children in the home. If you are a single parent or have one child, occasionally invite family or friends over to play. “There is a difference between spending time with your children and spending quality time with them, which may be for shorter periods in the case of working parents or limited visited parents,” Rogaly says. She explained that children had developmental milestones to reach and every form of play contributed to their journey to reach and exceed these milestones. Quality time with your children combines intense focus and attention on them, and a real involvement with them by playing with – not alongside – them. Parenting expert Nikki Bush agreed, adding: “Never underestimate the power of play in creating a strong family unit. There is a saying that families that play together, stay together.” According to Bush, setting aside time in a day to play as a family creates a “language all of its own” for a family, and builds bridges between adults and children while creating warm, fuzzy, rich multisensory memories. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  