REVEALED: Mugabe 'was leasing out land to whites', says report Harare - Former Zimbabwe president Robert Mugabe has been leasing out some of his family’s farm land to white businessmen – even though he threatened others for doing that while he was in office, a private newspaper reported at the weekend. As recently as late October, Mugabe said black owners who invited whites back to rent and work seized fields would lose their farms. But the Zimbabwe Independent reports that the former first family was doing exactly that: leasing out part of Mazowe Citrus Estate to a company in which some of the main shareholders were white. For more on this story click here  Zim electoral body chief resigns after Mugabe ouster – report Harare – Zimbabwe's Electoral Commission (Zec) chairperson Justice Rita Makarau has reportedly resigned just a couple of months before the crunch polls in 2018. According to Daily News, Makarau stunned the southern African country when she quit her job last week on Friday without giving any reasons for her resignation.  Unnamed sources at the Zec said that Makarau's sudden departure from her job had left a number of unanswered questions as she had been in jovial mood before she left her post.  Read more on this story here  Kenya opposition group says protest mock inaugural postponed Nairobi - Kenya's main opposition group on Sunday postponed a mock ceremony to inaugurate its leader as president. Opposition leader Raila Odinga and his colleagues said in a statement the decision to delay the event until a later date was reached after wide consultations but that they "remain fully on course in pursuit of electoral justice." "We are aware that this will be a disappointment to the people of Kenya who were eagerly waiting for this occasion," the statement said. "We wish to assure them that our resolve has not changed. Specifically, we wish to reiterate that any national dialogue must have electoral justice on the agenda. We are not interested in sharing illegitimate dictatorial power." For more on this story click here  WATCH: Victims of Zim's mass 1980s killings still wait for justice Bulawayo - At least 20 000 people died when former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe ordered a military campaign against the rival liberation movement, Zapu. An unknown number of civilians were among the dead in a series of massacres between 1983 and 1987. The new president, Emerson Mnangagwa, and former military chiefs appointed to his cabinet are implicated in the events. For more on this story click here  Mnangagwa's ministers 'cancel festive season travel to meet set targets' – report Harare – Zimbabwe's newly sworn-in cabinet ministers are reportedly "putting in extra hours every day to meet targets" set by President Emmerson Mnangagwa "as a new work ethic takes root in government". According to the state-owned Sunday Mail newspaper, Mnangagwa had tasked every minister to come up with at least three target-driven economic projects with a 100-day turnaround period. The project proposals were due this week. Read more on this story here  Russia's Putin lands in Egypt in sign of growing ties Cairo - Russian President Vladimir Putin has arrived in Cairo for talks with his Egyptian counterpart on their two countries' rapidly expanding ties. Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, who has visited Russia three times since 2014, gave Putin an official reception at Cairo's airport Monday. It's the Russian president's second visit to Egypt since 2015. Putin stopped earlier in the day at a Russian military air base in Syria. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  