People are celebrating the victory of ex-football superstar George Weah in Liberia's presidential run. See the pictures taken in the capital Monrovia.   Monrovia - Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated George Weah on his election as Liberia's next president. Buhari issued a statement on Friday that also commended the Liberian people "on the peaceful conduct of the historic presidential runoff election. " He called Tuesday's vote "another plus on Africa's democratic scoreboard". Buhari says Nigeria is ready to work with Liberia on issues of mutual interest and called Weah's victory "an affirmation of the will of the Liberian people to remain united, peaceful and prosperous." He also commended outgoing President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf for her work in transforming Liberia during her 12 years in office. Liberia, a nation founded by freed American slaves, is seeing its first democratic transfer of power in more than 70 years as Sirleaf, a Nobel Peace Prize winner, steps down. ___ 15:00 Liberia's president-elect and ex-soccer star George Weah says he is "honored to join a new generation of heads of state." In his first public comments since his rival conceded Friday, Weah tweeted in French in response to congratulations from French President Emmanuel Macron. Weah adds that "we have a lot to do together to accelerate the building of tomorrow's Africa." The former FIFA World Player of the Year played with AS Monaco and Paris Saint-Germain, among others. He is set to take office in January. ___ 14:00 French President Emmanuel Macron has called Liberia's president-elect George Weah to congratulate him and invite him to visit. The French presidency says in a statement that Weah accepted the invitation. Macron says the former soccer star and FIFA World Player of the Year still has "a special place in the French's hearts." Weah played with AS Monaco and Paris Saint-Germain, among others. He will take office in January. ___ 12:20  Liberia's vice president is congratulating former international soccer star George Weah on winning the West African nation's presidency. Joseph Boakai in an address to the nation on Friday is offering to help Weah's new government if needed. With more than 98% of votes counted late Thursday, Weah had received 61.5% of ballots while Boakai received 38.5%. Liberia, a nation founded by freed American slaves, is seeing its first democratic transfer of power in more than 70 years as Africa's first female president, Nobel Peace Prize winner Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, steps aside. The 51-year-old Weah, a senator who entered politics more than a decade ago, will take over in January. ___ 06:45  Celebrations have begun in Liberia as former FIFA World Player of the Year George Weah is set to be declared the winner of the West African nation's presidential election. With more than 98% of votes counted late Thursday, Weah received 61.5% of ballots while Vice President Joseph Boakai received 38.5%. Liberia, a nation founded by freed American slaves, is seeing its first democratic transfer of power in more than 70 years as Africa's first female president, Nobel Peace Prize winner Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, steps aside. She led the country from back-to-back civil wars and saw it through a deadly Ebola outbreak. The 51-year-old Weah, a senator who entered politics after his 2002 retirement, led the first-round election in October but didn't receive enough votes to win outright. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  