Jan Bornman SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Polokwane – The Limpopo acting provincial police commissioner, Major General Bafana Linda, has condemned and expressed concern over the "escalating trend" of domestic violence in the province. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said Linda’s condemnation stemmed from two recent, separate incidents at the Waterval policing area outside Makhado, and in the Hoedpsruit policing area outside Phalaborwa. In Hoedspruit, a 35-year-old man was arrested for raping his five-year-old daughter. "It is alleged that the suspect and his wife got separated and there was an agreement that they will take their two children, a boy and a girl, on a rotational basis to their respective place of residences," Ngoepe said. When the children were returned to their mother, she was told of the rape and it was reported to the police who made a swift arrest, Ngoepe said. "The suspect will appear before the Lenyenye Magistrate's Court soon on a charge of rape," he said. In the second incident, a 31-year-old man was arrested for murder and attempted murder after he allegedly stabbed his 25-year-old wife, and their two children. Ngoepe said all three were rushed to hospital, where one of the children died. He said police launched a manhunt and the man was arrested while hiding in a village outside of Thohoyandou on Monday. "The suspect, who is a parolee after he was sentenced to 15 years imprisonment in 2010 for murder, will appear before the Waterval Magistrate's Court soon on charges of murder and attempted murder," Ngoepe said. Police investigations were still ongoing in both matters, he said. Ngoepe encouraged members of the community not to resort to violence. "Members of the community are advised and encouraged to resolve their domestic disputes amicably by seeking the intervention of the relevant authorities, rather than harming or killing each other." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  