Domestic violence affects all of us. We have experienced many situations where women had to run for their lives because their boyfriends or husbands wanted to beat the living daylights out of them. We have seen many children being neglected, sexually and physically abused and made to suffer extreme trauma.  Domestic violence is rife in all areas, where it is a life-threatening situation. Women fight back, stand up or suffer in silence. This happens over years of either going out with a boyfriend or being married for 30 to 40 years. One can only break this if one is willing to say: “Enough, it stops today and not a minute later.” Many women count on their spouses due to a lack of finances or because they feel they have nowhere to go. They think of their children and stick it out in that abusive relationship. With the 16 Days of Activism campaign let us stand together and speak out. It is very sad when women come to the foundation sharing their life stories with us and the pain and suffering they have to endure due to a lack of support, and no form of finances to pay for a roof over their heads or food. Children suffer just as much as women, and the sad part is that women have to leave their homes when husbands beat them up. To see the innocence in the eyes of our children and how they share what has happened to them, not realising the impact such a hideous act will have on them at a later stage, is very sad. One can never turn a blind eye to domestic violence or the abuse of children, because children cannot defend themselves.  To know of so many children whose lives have been brutally taken, leaves one with so much pain that you can never forget.  My encouragement to all women out there is: Abuse starts and ends with you. Take your power back, and do not allow anyone to hurt you in any way that you feel violates your rights. Take care of yourself in order to take care of your children. Do not settle for anything else but love, respect and dignity. Tell yourself that you deserve the best, and only settle for the best. Abuse stops with you. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  