Tongaat SAPS and volunteers about to distribute pamphlets in the CBD. 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     
  SAPS Tongaat and the Department of Community Safety and Liaison Social Crime Prevention volunteers conducted a placard demonstration on the corner of Watson Highway and Gopalall Hurbans  to commemorate 16 Days of Activism on November 29. Pamphlets were distributed to the motorists and the community at the CBD.    Tongaat SAPS spokesperson Captain Patrick Ngwane said the police also conducted road blocks in Tongaat as part of their festive season operational plan. Ngwane said since the beginning of the festive season operations, SAPS Tongaat have arrested 18 motorists for drunk driving. “The police are committed to reducing this type of crime since there are many motor vehicle accidents reported during this period and innocent lives are lost.    “It is also important that we remind motorists about the limit. The blood may not have an alcohol content of more than 0.05%.    “This means that even after what you may think is a ‘small drink’, you could be over the limit. If you have more than 350ml of beer or more than one tot of brandy you may already be over the limit.”  Ngwane said the SAPS, Metro police and other law-enforcement agencies are frequently conducting road blocks to educate people about dangers of driving under the influence. “The suspect will be held in custody until bail application is made, depending on prior convictions against the suspect.    “There is a minimum fine of R2000 or a two-year prison sentence if anyone is found driving under the influence.    The suspect may also lose driver's licence or have it suspended.” SAPS Tongaat Colonel Santha Moodley warned motorists not to drink and drive. Moodley said more police will be deployed on the road during the festive season to ensure that the community enjoys their holidays in a safe environment.   “We appeal to the motorists to drink responsibly.    “Pedestrians are also urged not to abuse alcohol and walk along the road.”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  