(Themba Hadebe, AP File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Cyril Ramaphosa launches a thinly veiled attack on his predecessor Jacob Zuma, talks land reform and the ANC's full NEC list is revealed. Here is a roundup of some of what you may have missed from #ANC54 overnight and in the early hours: Ramaphosa takes jabs at Zuma Newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa launched a thinly veiled attack on his predecessor Jacob Zuma during his maiden speech at the party's national conference Land expropriation decision will not harm economy - Ramaphosa The ANC's resolution to go ahead with expropriation of land without compensation will not undermine the economy, newly elected party president Cyril Ramaphosa promised. Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference.   Party delegates sing during the ANC policy conference in Johannesburg. (Themba Hadebe, AP)  Ramaphosa friends and foes in ANC NEC The ANC's new national executive committee (NEC) is made up of friends and foes of incoming ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. Meet the new ANC NECHere is the full list of the new members of the NEC - the highest decision-making body of the party. Ramaphosa bids Nxamalala adieu It is 00:09 when ANC national chairperson Gwede Mantashe invites newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa to the podium amid cheers that evolves into chants of "ANC! ANC! ANC!" What does Ramaphosa's victory mean for SA economy? Judging by his track record and statements he made during the height of his campaign, Ramaphosa promises to ring in changes that will jump start the struggling South African economy. WATCH LIVE: ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa delivers closing address of 54th conference  #ANC54: 8 things to keep a keen eye on in 2018The ANC’s 54th National Conference raised eight key economic issues which need to be addressed in the near future.Harder times ahead for the rand as Ramaphosa rally fadesThe South African rand’s surge lasted only as long as it took Cyril Ramaphosa to get himself to the top of the nation’s ruling party.Loud cheers as Ramaphosa says #ANC54 unanimous on land reformNewly elected ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa has committed to land expropriation without compensation in a way that doesn’t undermine the economy, agricultural production and food security. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  