ZERO tolerance with drinking on all Nelson Mandela Bay beaches and any other criminal activities are squarely in the crosshairs of both the Metro Police and the South African Police Services (SAPS) this festive season. This pertinent warning was sounded by both Member of the Mayoral Committee (MMC) for Safety and Security, Cllr John Best, and Major-General Dawie Rabie of SAPS at the municipality’s official launch of its Festive Season Safety Plan. “Special operations at our ports of entry and visible patrols on our beaches in conjunction with the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) will take place and soon we will also embark on crime prevention operations. “The launch of this programme is in line with SAPS plans to ensure that members of the public can enjoy themselves on our beaches and at tourist attractions. “A zero tolerance of alcohol consumption will be maintained,” Major-General Rabie said. For the first time this year the Metro Police will have six officers on cycles doing duty at the beachfront. In addition twenty tourist safety ambassadors, empowered with peace officer training, will also do duty at the Donkin and the beachfront. “Since we launched the Metro Police, we intended to work very closely with the South African Police Services. We never intended to go on the arduous journey of fighting crime alone. “It is therefore essentially good that SAPS has a similar approach to our broad objective to maintain a zero tolerance campaign against drinking on our beaches. “It it also not helpful if people are not allowed to drink on Kings Beach, Hobie and Pollok but they can be drunk at Maitlands beach.  “We will therefore enforce this directive at all our beaches and law enforcement will take place in all sixty wards in Nelson Mandela Bay,” said MMC John Best. Advocate Keith Meyer, Executive Director for Safety and Security said,  “We will make sure that you have a safe festive season and we would like to send a clear message.  “We will not allow any breathing space for criminals,” Meyer added.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  