Tshidi Madia  Former AU chair Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. (Elizabeth Sejake, Gallo Images, Rapport, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Hammanskraal - Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma received the nod for presidency from a divided ANC North West, beating her rival, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, by a wide margin.Howling, cheering and booing, characterised the platinum-mining province's provincial general council (PGC) as groups in support of the presidential hopefuls, Ramaphosa and Dlamini-Zuma, clashed over several issues throughout. Some objected to the credentials being adopted, raising several issues with the branch general meetings that took place throughout the province, while others argued that the PGC was not the place to raise such issues.Dlamini-Zuma received 291 nominations to Ramaphosa's 44, while Mpumalanga provincial chairperson, David Mabuza, received 289 nominations for the position of deputy president.  The rest of the Dlamini-Zuma slate was also nominated. READ: Dlamini-Zuma wins Mpumalanga's nomination for ANC president  Nathi Mthethwa received 284 nominations for ANC national chairperson, Ace Magashule received 289 nominations for secretary general, while current ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte received 261 nominations to retain her position. ANC Women's League treasurer Maite Nkoana Mashabane was nominated for the treasurer general position. "We were engaging fiercely. When you report, we must say [it was] consistent with the ANC culture, robust engagements... Say no one was suppressed," ANC North West premier Supra Mahumapelo told journalists at the end of the gathering. Mahumapelo was referring to earlier squabbles that had taken place. He said they took a decision to allow the media to witness the squabbles and how the province resolves its issues, in spite of some asking for the media to be kicked out."Based on this overwhelming mandate, the leadership of the ANC in the province, led by the chairperson, will go around the country canvassing for Dlamini-Zuma," said Mahumapelo.Additional members nominated by the province include MKMVA spokesperson Carl Niehaus, Desmond Moela, Blade Nzimande, Andile Lungisa, Gwede Mantashe, Madoda Sambatha and former Eskom boss Brian Molefe. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  