Jan Gerber Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa looks on as he attends a plenary meeting at Nasrec. (Gulshan Khan, AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Newly-elected ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa picked a few souvenirs to take home when he visited vendors selling party paraphernalia at Nasrec on Tuesday. Watch.WATCH Johannesburg - The ANC's 54th national conference is drawing to a close on Wednesday, but late on Tuesday night, the matter of the more than 60 quarantined votes was still being dealt with by the steering committee. Voting for the national executive committee (NEC) - the party's highest decision-making body - was expected to last well into the night, after the initial process had to be halted and ballot papers had to be reprinted. With much of the conference's programme being delayed by disputes about the credentials and voting procedures, not much time has been spent on policy discussions. The conference did, however, break into its commissions for policy discussions on Tuesday afternoon. Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference. Each commission will also brief the media on their resolutions on Wednesday. The dispute over the ballots was expected to be presented at the plenary for delegates to discuss. A heated debate is also expected after the North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo told News24 Polotiki that they would demand fresh elections for all top six positions or a recount of the votes for all decisions. On Wednesday's agenda is Cyril Ramaphosa's first address as ANC president, which is expected to close the conference, and which should shed some light on the direction in which he wants to take the party. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  