Pearl Thusi (File, Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - News24 brings you 13 quotes from the North Gauteng High Court ruling against President Jacob Zuma; The Department of Water and Sanitation is to start rationing and restricting bulk water supply to municipalities in debt; and a look at the 2017 Springbok season match by match. Here are today’s top stories: Scathing judgment finds Madonsela's actions against Zuma 'wise, necessary, rational, appropriate' Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela's recommended remedial actions after her investigation into state capture were wise, necessary, rational and appropriate, the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria found on Wednesday. Read more here #StateCapture judgment: 13 blows dealt to Zuma, quote by quote  Just a few days before the ANC elects a new leader, the party's outgoing president Jacob Zuma was dealt a heavy blow by the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. Read the quotes here Springbok review: Ups and downs of 2017  Thirteen Tests, seven wins, four losses and two draws. That was the Springboks' record in 2017 and while it was much better than the four wins and eight losses from 2016, it was far from satisfying. Read more on Sport24 KZN branches which backed Ramaphosa showed maturity – Bheki Cele  ANC National Executive Committee member Bheki Cele says the fact that almost 200 branches in KwaZulu-Natal nominated Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa for the party's next president shows maturity beyond tribal lines. Read more here Water 'rationing' to kick in for defaulting municipalities  The Department of Water and Sanitation is to start rationing and restricting bulk water supply to municipalities in debt. Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane on Wednesday said that 25 of the 30 municipalities had been in contact with the department to agree on a plan to pay back their debt. Continue reading here PICS: Pearl Thusi’s high flying beach photo shoot  South African actress, Pearl Thusi, hit the beach on Tuesday in Cape Town and did a cool photo shoot with her Scorpion King: Book of Souls co-star Zach McGowan, who took the snaps.  PearlThusi (Photo:Twitter.com/PearlThusi)  See all the pictures here  WATCH: Motorist finds 'police bribe money' in nearby bushes A video emerged on Facebook recently of what appears to be a civilian finding “bribe” money in the bushes at a roadblock in Alberton, Ekurhuleni. Watch the video here 'High risk' ex-prison boss paroled to be under house arrest, for now  Controversial former deputy director at the Pietermaritzburg prison Russel Ngubo — jailed for the murder of two IFP members in Impendle in 1998 — has been released on parole. Read more  Investigation 'issues' delay Hannah Cornelius murder trial  The Stellenbosch Magistrate's Court has postponed the case of four men, accused of raping and murdering Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, due to "issues" in the investigation. Read full story here  Wayde, Caster cash in after World Championships  Wayde van Niekerk will pocket R250 000 and Caster Semenya R230 000 following the impressive performances of both athletes at the IAAF World Championships in London. Continue reading here Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  