Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe. (Tsvangirayi Mukwazhi, AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare — Delegates from Zimbabwe's ruling party on Friday sealed the fate of Robert Mugabe, a man they had revered for decades but removed from power in dramatic scenes last month. The ZANU-PF congress officially endorsed its Central Committee's decision to recall Mugabe and replace him with Emmerson Mnangagwa as its leader. It also endorsed Mnangagwa as its candidate for the 2018 elections. Mnangagwa was inaugurated as the country's new president last month. The party meeting was the final step in Mugabe's fall from grace after the military put him under house arrest, hundreds of thousands rallied in the streets and lawmakers began impeachment proceedings. Under the growing pressure, the 93-year-old who had vowed to rule for life finally resigned. He had led the party since 1975 and the country since independence from white minority rule in 1980. Images of Mugabe's face, usually plastered on delegates' dress and other paraphernalia, were conspicuously missing Friday, as was Mugabe himself. He flew to Malaysia and Singapore earlier this week to visit family and seek medical treatment in his first overseas trip since last month's events. The 75-year-old Mnangagwa at his inauguration described Mugabe as a "father, comrade-in-arms and my leader," even though his firing by Mugabe as vice president early last month set the events in motion amid concerns that unpopular first lady Grace Mugabe might succeed him. Mugabe's time was up the moment he surrendered power to his wife, some party delegates said. Also read: Zimbabwe's Mnangagwa vows new path for 'desecrated' party Now Mnangagwa must find a way out of his longtime mentor's shadow, revive the severely weakened economy and win over voters ahead of elections. He told Friday's gathering that the vote will be held as scheduled, without mentioning a date. The elections should be held in July or August, according to the constitution. The opposition, shut out of Mnangagwa's Cabinet in favor of military and ruling party members, has joined the United States and others in the international community in urging Zimbabwe's new government to make sure the elections are democratic. Mnangagwa, sanctioned by the US years ago for his activities as a top Mugabe aide, has said the government will do all in its power to make sure the elections are "credible, free and fair." On Thursday, he called for longtime sanctions to be lifted to ease foreign investment and promised measures to make the once-prosperous southern African nation "a place where capital feels safe." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  