Caryn Dolley (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Several underworld cases unfolding in Cape Town may be combined to form one massive case in which suspects will be charged under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act. This emerged in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Tuesday during the bail application of Hussain Ait Taleb, a 49-year-old martial arts expert better known in bouncer circles as Hussain Moroccan, who faces a conspiracy to commit murder charge. It is alleged that Taleb contracted two "individuals" to kill a prominent Cape Town club owner who did not want to pay him protection money. Late in 2016 a new grouping, headed by controversial businessman Nafiz Modack, started taking over the control of nightclub security from a more established grouping. This takeover has resulted in violence, shootings and several arrests. For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld, see News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked During the bail application on Tuesday, Sergeant Eduard Edwardes, the investigating officer in Taleb's case who is probing underworld matters, detailed how several cases could be combined. It emerged that Taleb's case was part of a series of investigations into underworld activities and that the cases against several suspects could be joined to form one mammoth case. This case will fall under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act, Edwardes testified. The Director of Public Prosecutions needed to give the go-ahead for the joining of the cases. Among the cases which may be absorbed into one is the matter against Modack. Modack was arrested last Friday along with Colin Booysen - who is the brother of suspected Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen - Jacques Cronje, James de Jager, Ashley Fields, Mathys Visser and Carl Lakay. READ: Underworld nightclub extortion case: 7 arrests and recorded calls with cops Their cases, most of which involve extortion charges, were postponed to next Wednesday for bail applications in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court. Six more arrests anticipated In court on Tuesday, Edwardes said six more suspects were set to be arrested.  Cases had been opened with regards to these suspects. Edwardes said complaints from owners of establishments had resulted in the opening of about 14 cases relating to extortion, intimidation and assault. These were linked to the nightclub security takeover. He said the Bellville-based company Skhosana Maponyane Hall Phillips and Khumalo, which trades as The Security Group (TSG), was being used to carry out the nightclub security takeover. Edwardes testified that Taleb was a director of this company, as was Grant Veroni, who faces charges of fraud, as well as of the possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. A third director of the company, Edwardes said, was a niece of Jerome and Colin Booysen. Edwardes testified that TSG was linked to, among others, Modack and Booysen. He said control of the doors of clubs equalled being in control of the drug trade and therefore money. Taleb's bail application is expected to continue on Thursday. He has been in custody since his arrest on October 8. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  