Christina Pitt PHOTO: Supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lungani Mbatha is a miracle in motion after surviving an electric shock that could have cost him his life. The electrician (26) was working on a construction site near Durban earlier on Monday when he received a severe electrical shock, according to a statement from Netcare 911. “I’ve never had a serious electrical shock before, and I can’t remember much of what happened. All I know is that we were busy connecting wires, I shouted out and I don’t remember anything after that until I woke up in Netcare uMhlanga Hospital,” Lungani said. He was fortunate to receive assistance from a Good Samaritan who noticed he wasn’t breathing and immediately initiated cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Advanced life support paramedic Shaun Paul believes the “chain of survival” principle contributed to the young electrician’s survival and recovery. This principle of emergency cardiac care includes early recognition of cardiac arrest and activation of appropriate emergency medical service, including starting CPR as soon as possible, early defibrillation, as well as advanced cardiac life support and in-hospital treatment for post-cardiac arrest care. “The chain of survival certainly made all the difference in this patient’s survival,” Paul said. “The early intervention of the bystander, who initiated CPR before paramedics arrived, probably made the difference between life and death for Mr Mbatha. “If the Good Samaritan hadn’t started CPR, it’s probable the patient’s heart wouldn’t have been in a rhythm that was responsive to treatment.” Dr Nitin Ghila, who treated Lungani at Netcare uMhlanga Hospital, explained that the electrical shock resulted in cardiac arrest because his heart couldn’t pump vital oxygenated blood through the body. “The paramedics and the bystander who initiated CPR certainly helped to save Mr Mbatha’s life. In any resuscitation time is of the essence and Mr Mbatha was fortunate that someone was on hand to recognise that he needed CPR and perform it until Netcare 911 arrived to provide definitive treatment,” Ghila said. Lungani expressed his gratitude to everyone who helped him in his time of need. “I’m so thankful to be here today. To the person who made the call to Netcare 911 and to the man who gave me CPR, I don’t remember any of this, but I’m told that they helped to keep me alive so I’d like to say thank you very, very much. “I’m so grateful to the paramedics, doctors and nurses, and I’d also like to thank Netcare for all the support they have showed me.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.