Correspondent (File, AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Parliament, the SA National Civic Organisation, as well as political party, Cope, were, on Sunday, among the first public groupings to wish those South Africans celebrating Christmas well. "The Presiding Officers of Parliament wish all Christians in South Africa a joyous and wonderful Christmas," said Parliamentary spokesman Moloto Mothapo in a statement. Now was the time to recharge and rejoin a collective vision for a "united, non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa," said Mothapo. "During this period of joy and goodwill, let's also be each other’s keepers, be thoughtful and helpful to the less fortunate, the destitute and the infirm." Meanwhile, Cope President Mosiuoa Lekota also reiterated that South Africans needed to reach out to those with less. "During this season of festivities, let us spare a thought for those among our people who may be unfortunate not to have the wherewithal to put a meal on their tables.  "Let us extend human love and reaching out to them by sharing and caring for them." Reflecting on the South African landscape this year, Lekota said that while "our country has had its ups and downs… we can't be in doubt about is that the Mighty has blessed us with this beautiful country and with a variety of people." In a separate statement, SANCO emphasised the need to get festive – responsibily. "Be vigilant and exercise extreme caution while driving in order to reduce the carnage on public roads." SANCO National Spokesperson, Jabu Mahlangu said that despite "several setbacks" there was now "renewed hope that the country will going forward deal more decisively with economic challenges including fighting greed and corruption in the public and private sectors." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  