Lizeka Tandwa, News24 President Jacob Zuma (Felix Dlangamandla, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     President Jacob Zuma hosted his final gala dinner as ANC leader with the event attended by the who's who of the business world. WATCH Johannesburg - Outgoing ANC president Jacob Zuma has
expressed confidence in all seven presidential hopefuls. Speaking at his last gala dinner as party leader in Nasrec,
south of Johannesburg on Friday night, Zuma said the abnormally long list of
candidates for his position demonstrated that the ANC was democratic.  "Have you ever had an organisation that is so open and
matured? Never. Seven candidates for president. It demonstrates that we have
enough talent. Anyone of these, you can take and put [in the presidency]." Zweli Mkhize, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, Lindiwe Sisulu, Cyril
Ramaphosa, Mathews Phosa, Baleka Mbete and Jeff Radebe have all put their names
in the hat for the top positions. The leading contenders, Dlamini-Zuma and
Ramaphosa, were seen embracing and posing for photos. PICS: Zuma hosts his last gala dinner as ANC president Zuma assured the business elite who attended the prestigious
event that the party would remain united after the conference. "Everything
has been done to ensure a smooth and successful conference," he added. He gushed about the ANC as a transparent, democratic and
open organisation.  Zuma echoed his past
sentiments that whomever emerged as the winner must be supported by all the
candidates.  "I'm sure they are not going to disappoint you. They
know the principles of the African National Congress (ANC)... As the seven,
once one of them is elected, they will all unite behind that person. That is
what is expected of the members of the ANC in good standing," he said. Dlamini-Zuma's campaign suffered major blows on Friday, with
court judgments potentially costing her more than a hundred votes. - Read more: We don't want KZN to be an issue at conference –
Zikalala The KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Pietermaritzburg granted the
provincial executive committee (PEC) the right to appeal a ruling disbanding
the committee, but the court ruled the PEC's members could not cast their votes
at the conference, denying the province 27 votes. In the Free State, last week's controversial elective
conference was set aside, meaning that the PEC there will also lose its 27
votes and another potential 14 votes from branches barred from attending the
elective conference. In the North West, the Bojanala regional conference was set
aside. The court there further ruled that the branch general meetings of 38
branches, held between October and November for the election of delegates to
attend the Nasrec conference, were irregular, invalid and unconstitutional. The majority of these votes were expected to go to
Dlamini-Zuma.   Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  