Correspondent (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban - Three alleged hijackers were shot dead in two separate incidents, while three others remain on the run, Kwazulu-Natal police said on Sunday.  In the first incident a 27-year-old man was driving a white Toyota Quantum in Inanda on Saturday when he was hijacked by five armed suspects, said Captain Nqobile Gwala. Police responded to the crime, and tracked the suspects down as they were driving to KwaMashu, with the driver in the vehicle. "The suspects started to fire shots at the SAPS members and the members returned fire."  Two of the suspected hijackers, both in their 20s, were killed in the shootout. "Three suspects managed to flee the scene on foot and are still being sought by the police." The driver was also injured and taken to hospital. Police recovered a 9mm pistol from the killed suspects. Hijacked vehicle recovered Meanwhile in a separate incident on Friday, Pietermaritzburg police spotted a silver VW Golf, which had been reported as being hijacked earlier, on the N3 southbound. "Police officers from the PMB Highway Patrol and K9 Unit also assisted and managed to intercept the hijacked vehicle."  A shootout occurred, during which one of two hijackers was shot dead. "A 35-year-old suspect was apprehended and was found in possession of an unlicensed firearm."  He is expected to appear in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court soon. The victim of the hijacking was apparently travelling in central Pietermaritzburg when he was accosted by the two men. They stabbed a friend, who was travelling with him, in the shoulder. The friend was taken to hospital for treatment. "We want to reiterate that police officers will always defend themselves when attacked by ruthless criminals," Kwazulu-Natal acting provincial commissioner Major General Bheki Langa said in the statement.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  