Caryn Dolley 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - The alleged involvement of "top" police generals in underworld activities has surfaced in a murder plot case in which a security company director is accused of having planned to have a club owner killed. Hussain Ait Taleb, 49, a martial arts expert better known in bouncer circles as Hussain Moroccan, appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. He faces a conspiracy to commit murder charge. Taleb has applied to be released on bail and is expected to hear on Friday morning whether or not his application will be granted. It is alleged that Taleb contracted two "individuals" to kill a prominent Cape Town club owner who did not want to pay him protection money. READ: R20 000 offered for club owner's murder, court hears in underworld case Taleb was represented in court by Keith Gess, of the law firm Matthewson Gess Attorneys, and Bruce Hendricks of Hassan-Harmse Attorneys. During proceedings on Thursday, Gess referred to the alleged involvement of “top generals” in underworld activities. He asked how Taleb fit into this. The names of the police generals were not mentioned. 'Out the way' Gess also referred to the alleged involvement of controversial businessmen Mark Lifman and André Naude, saying they apparently wanted to get Taleb "out the way". At one stage, Naude and Lifman headed a security company which dominated the nightclub security scene. Gess argued that there was no evidence to support the murder conspiracy theory, other than the words of Taleb’s alleged co-conspirators. In court on Tuesday, it had emerged that the duo first provided another name when referring to the club owner they were allegedly meant to murder. Later, they divulged a second name, which was not made known in court due to the sensitivity of the matter. Late in 2016 a new grouping, headed by controversial businessman Nafiz Modack, started taking over the control of nightclub security from a more established grouping. This takeover resulted in violence, shootings and several arrests. For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld, see News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked Modack was arrested last Friday along with Colin Booysen - who is the brother of suspected Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen - Jacques Cronje, James de Jager, Ashley Fields, Mathys Visser and Carl Lakay. Their cases, most of which involve extortion charges, were postponed to next Wednesday for bail applications in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court. Massive combined case During Taleb’s bail application on Tuesday, Sergeant Edward Edwardes, the investigating officer in Taleb’s case who is probing underworld matters, detailed how several cases could be combined. It emerged that Taleb’s case was part of a series of investigations into underworld activities and that the cases against several suspects could be joined to form one mammoth case. This case will fall under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act, Edwardes had testified. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  