Correspondent  Auxillia Mnangagwa (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Former secretaries who married older men and finished up as
first ladies? New Zimbabwe president Emmerson Mnangagwa's wife Auxillia
shares SOME similarities with her predecessor Grace Mugabe - though Mrs
Mnangagwa will probably not thank you for pointing that out. Here are the key things to know about the former and the
current Zimbabwe first ladies: Nearly the same age Auxillia Mnangagwa is 54. Grace Mugabe - whose unpopularity
is widely believed to have led to her husband being forced out - is 52. Older husbands Grace Mugabe's husband is 41 years older than her. The age
gap between Auxillia Mnangagwa and her husband is wide - but not THAT wide.
Emmerson Mnangagwa is 21 years older than his wife. The Mnangagwas have been
married for 33 years. Started off as secretaries Both women started off in government service as secretaries.
While Grace Mugabe didn’t move beyond the presidential typing pool before
becoming first lady in 1996, Auxillia Mnangagwa became a member of the spy
agency – the CIO – in the 1990s. Then she retrained in tourism and hospitality. A helping hand in politics Both women appear to have had some help from their husbands.
Grace Mugabe’s political career really got started when she became leader of
the ruling party’s women’s league in 2014. There was little doubt that her
elevation then had everything to do with who her husband was. Grace used her
position in the women's league to oust former vice president Joice Mujuru,
before setting her sights on Mnangagwa. He took over the vice presidency from
Mujuru. Auxillia Mnangagwa also got a political headstart in 2014,
when she was elected MP for a constituency left vacant when her husband became
VP. Two other contenders for the seat at the time are reported to have bowed
out of the contest out of "respect" for Mnangagwa, according to this
profile by HerZimbabwe. Orphans vs womens' empowerment Grace Mugabe made a name for herself as a philanthropist by
opening an orphanage in the Mazowe district, north of Harare. As an MP,
Auxillia Mnangagwa helped with women empowerment schemes in her home province
of the Midlands. As the new first lady though, she has stepped up her work with
orphans and vulnerable children. She plans to distribute food hampers to 4 000
vulnerable children before Christmas. She’s also been visiting public hospitals
in Harare and Bulawayo to highlight poor service delivery, according to her
Facebook page. See some of her pictures and video below. "I did not like the attitude by some of the nurses," she said in
a recent post. "I want to encourage staff at our hospitals to be friendly to
members of the public, especially patients." The campaign appears to be winning
her some fans. "We are proud of you, mother," wrote Edward Mutizwa on Facebook. Glowing coverage Public media was obliged to give Grace Mugabe favourable
coverage while she was first lady. But her extravagance and apparent detachment
from the lives of ordinary Zimbabweans meant she was thoroughly disliked. That
may be why there's been discomfort with recent coverage of the new first lady
in the state-owned press. Reacting to the Sunday Mail's fawning coverage of
Auxillia Mnangagwa's visit to a Harare hospital, local media watchdog,
@ZimMediaReview tweeted: "State media continuing the sort of flattering
reporting it once gave Grace." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  