A worker checks a large vat in a factory. (File, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Sydney – A man believed to be in his thirties has died and two of his fellow factory workers were injured after the three of them fell into a boiling hot ink vat in a factory in western Sydney. According to a Daily Mail report, the men got trapped in the "large battery" shaped tank shortly before 09:00 on Thursday morning. ALSO READ: Huge fire at Abidjan paint factory leaves two in hospital While two of the workers were rescued, the third man died at the scene and according to the Sydney Morning Herald, his body still remains trapped in the vat. "We did everything we could; this is a tragedy," NSW ambulance superintendent Paul Turner said. ALSO READ: Up to 35 hurt in blasts, fire at New York cosmetics factory "My understanding is that they were cleaning a vat used for ink, they were in there doing maintenance cleaning and they’ve become trapped in the vat," Turner told Fairfax Media. Turner said "ink slush" at the bottom of the vat made the rescue a "complex operation". ALSO READ: 'Hand of God' saved Indonesian teen from fatal factory fire The vat was reportedly between five and eight metres high, and rescuers gained access to the trapped men through a manhole at the bottom of the vat.  A man has died trapped in a vat of boiling ink at a Sydney factory. #7News pic.twitter.com/pOdjBAialC  Auburn: A tragic accident or a machine malfunction has killed a worker and injured 2 others at an ink factory in Auburn. All 3 were inside a large mixing vat cleaning it when the machine suddenly turned on crushing and trapping them. @campricenews #Auburn #7News pic.twitter.com/Zvfi5dmfKp  Ink vat incident needs new safety laws. Bulk containment of liquids and solids or flowing substances, must be contained in vessels where people can not fit. It is time to introduce cellular containment of bulk "flowing" matter such as liquids, grains and pellets. It's a start...    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  