Lethiwe Makhanya BELOW: Kalvin Naidoo’s parents Patsy (left) and Dev Naidoo.PHOTO: lethiwe makhanya 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     THE mother of a Northdale man, who was killed by a policeman in a road rage incident, says he “should have just done me a favour and shot me too”. Kalvin Naidoo was shot dead in the city centre in November, 2014. Thobelani Khuzwayo, who has subsequently been dismissed from the SAPS, was last week sentenced to 15 years for the murder and the obstruction of justice.  Victim impact statements from Naidoo’s family were read in court last Wednesday before the sentencing.  His mother Patsy fought back tears throughout court proceedings.  Her victim impact statement said: “He was strong and loved to live. He was the essence of our lives. Events and gatherings are so difficult without him. All I have are the pictures, videos and audio clips. “The one who shot Kalvin should have just done me a favour and shot me too.”  Naidoo’s father Dev said they were a happy family, but all that changed on November 2, 2014. “The phone call I received at about 10.50pm changed everything. Our lives changed. Kalvin was full of life with a bubbly personality. Seeing him in hospital with his chest open will haunt me for the rest of my life.  “When I received the news that he was dead it was like the world had collapsed, but I had to be strong for my family.”  Before sentencing Khuzwayo told the court that what had happened was a mistake.  He asked the court to be lenient because he had always been a trustworthy police officer. “I was never a violent person. I have always been a well-behaved person in the community and I am a man of God.”  Magistrate Muntukayise Khumalo said Khuzwayo never showed any remorse during the trial. Naidoo’s family said they were happy with the sentence.  “We are very grateful to the court. Now we will be able to move on with our lives. This will help us get closure,” said Dev.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  