Emmerson Mnangagwa. (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – President Jacob Zuma is set to meet with his
Zimbabwean counterpart President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Thursday at his
Mahlamba Ndlopfu residence in Pretoria, the presidency has said in a statement.
 This would be Mnangagwa's first working visit to South
Africa since his inauguration on November 24.  "During the courtesy call, the two heads of state will share
perspectives on various issues of mutual importance, such as, regional,
continental and international developments," the presidency said. During the
same visit, Mnangagwa would be expected to "address a high profile
business conference" at the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria, News24 reported earlier. This comes as Mnangagwa's new administration strives "to revitalise the economy through
attracting investment". The economy  According
to the state-owned Herald newspaper, a statement by Zimbabwe's embassy in
South Africa on Tuesday said that all Zimbabwean business people based in South
Africa and all those interested in investing in Zimbabwe are invited to the
high-level meeting. "His Excellency, Ambassador
Isaac Moyo invites all Zimbabweans in South Africa and all business persons
with an interest in investing in Zimbabwe to a business meeting which will be
addressed by His Excellency, Cde ED Mnangagwa, the President of the Republic of
Zimbabwe," read part of the statement. In
his first speech as president of Zimbabwe, Mnangagwa emphasised his and
Zanu-PF's new commitment to growing the
economy and creating jobs. "As we focus on recovering our
economy, we must shed misbehaviours and acts of indiscipline which have
characterised the past. Acts of corruption must stop forthwith," he said. The Herald quoted him at the time
as saying: "The many skilled Zimbabweans who have left the country over
the years for a variety of reasons must now come into the broad economic
calculus designed for our recovery and take off." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  