Jan Bornman (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - A 55-year-old woman from Krugersdorp in Johannesburg is looking forward to spending Christmas with her family after surviving three heart attacks and a stroke. Belinda De Beer was discharged from Netcare Krugersdorp Hospital about a month ago after undergoing successful open-heart surgery. She suffered two heart attacks on September 16 and was transferred to the Netcare Krugersdorp Hospital on September 19 where she suffered another heart attack and a stroke. De Beer’s treating physician described her recovery as "something of a miracle". The physician, Alexia Gugulethu Magubane, said there was a complete lack of electrical brain activity for a few days following De Beer’s stroke. "We were all deeply concerned about Mrs De Beer," Magubane said. "We treated her in the intensive care unit of the hospital for the stroke and heart condition, and were relieved when she finally came out of the coma." De Beer spent several weeks recovering and undergoing rehabilitation and, once she was strong enough, a cardiothoracic surgeon could finally operate on her. "It was a close call and we are all thrilled that Mrs De Beer has finally been able to go home to spend the festive season and her birthday with her family. I ascribe her recovery, in large part, to her unbelievable fighting spirit and the loving support of her family throughout this traumatic time," Magubane said. 'More than a doctor' De Beer’s daughter, Ansja, thanked the doctors who took care of her mother and for "explaining everything clearly and honestly to us". "Dr Magubane was much more than a doctor. During this difficult time, she became a friend of my mother and our family. I don’t think I have come across such caring doctors before, and my family and I will be forever grateful to them," she said. Ansja lost her father in March this year and said she believed his death had a big impact on her mother. "My father was disabled for seven years and my mom took care of him. She has a very big heart. Both of my parents are fighters. We are extremely grateful and blessed to be able to have my mom with us this festive season and to celebrate her birthday on Christmas day," she said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  