Mxolisi Mngadi ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. (Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Deputy President and newly elected ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa has reaffirmed the government's determination to build an economy that serves "all our people".  In his first Christmas message as the party's president on Christmas Eve, Ramaphosa encouraged South Africans "to enter the New Year determined to redouble our efforts to build a society in which all are safe, secure and feel valued". "We need to work together as social partners to focus on our economy by removing all the obstacles to investment and move South Africa to a higher level of growth. The signs of recovery are there and we must all do all we can to ensure that we turn our economy around," he said. Ramaphosa, who recently succeeded President Jacob Zuma as ANC president, said the National Development Plan needed to be implemented "with energy as well as with great urgency". "Our Vision 2030 remains the blueprint for inclusive growth, social cohesion and prosperity for all. Under this plan, we will continue to develop skills that can help our country realise its developmental goals and address labour market issues," he said. Ramaphosa said more skilled managers, professionals, technicians, engineers and artisans were needed. "We therefore encourage those who will be receiving their matric results in the next few days to investigate the possibilities that await them at universities, TVET colleges as well as community colleges," he said.  Also read: Khoisan Four head home for Christmas after Ramaphosa meeting During the country's 23 years of democracy, the government, social partners and active citizens have created a South Africa where the provision of social services and amenities has helped to confront the legacy of apartheid, he said. "New schools, hospitals, clinics, factories, bridges, dams and airports tell the story of a South Africa that has indeed moved forward," he said. He added that 2017 was a year in which, despite progress in many important areas that the government has made, they continued to see the devastating effect of unemployment on individuals, families and communities. "That is why, as we reflect on the achievements and challenges of the last year, we must reaffirm our determination to build an economy that serves all our people," he said. Ramaphosa said it was a special honour for him to join South Africans on the eve of Christmas 2017, "at a time when all of us are devoting our attention to family and friends and celebrating the season of goodwill and peace". Also read: Top six: What new leaders mean for the ANC 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  