Jeanette Chabalala Estate agent Vicki Momberg (Felix Dlangamandla/Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Estate agent Vicki Momberg has accused a Randburg Magistrate's Court prosecutor of laughing and intimidating her while she was testifying during her pre-sentencing proceedings. "I feel victimised and yesterday [Thursday] I felt offended. I find it intimidating [and] it is not acceptable to fight me on a situation," she said during mitigation arguments on Friday morning. "I don't think it is correct that you can attack me. There have been numerous victimisations that I am the problem, when you barely knew the facts," she told prosecutor Yusuf Baba. Momberg was found guilty of four counts of crimen injuria on November 3 in connection with a racist tirade she went on after she had just been robbed in a smash-and-grab in Northriding, Johannesburg, in 2016. Some of the charges related to her calling a police officer and call centre agent, who were trying to assist, her k****rs. Read more: The 'k-word' reminds black people of apartheid, Vicki Momberg court hears In a video clip that went viral, Momberg can be heard complaining about the "calibre of blacks" in Johannesburg. When Baba asked if he could continue cross-examining her, Momberg said: "You want to further victimise me?" "I don't think it is fair and just for you to attack me," she replied. During arguments in mitigation of sentencing, Momberg – who was dressed in a blue shirt, white pants – said she had suffered trauma after the smash-and-grab in February 2016. "Immediately after the trauma, for the first night I didn’t sleep at all… two days later, I went to the pharmacy. I got supplements for sleeping and just to take the edge off," she said. 'I will never be able to apologise to everyone' She also told the court that she could not get people to accept her apology. "Only time can change that. I can only do so much, but it doesn't mean I am not sorry. I will never be able to apologise to everyone."   At one point, Momberg wept as she gave her testimony. She said she did not agree with the judgment that found her guilty on crimen injuria. She also told the court that what she said after the smash-and-grab had come from fear and frustration. "It was not intentional. I know what happened that night. The words were from anger and fear." On Thursday, Momberg said her repeated apologies had been rejected. She said she had said sorry six or eight times. She had previously made apologies through her legal representative and had testified in court that she had apologised to those she had offended. "It is a humiliating and embarrassing thing that I have done. I tried to apologise and I did not get an apology through to anyone. I don't know how to put it into words." Momberg said she did not approve of the k-word. The matter was postponed to December 7. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  