James de Villiers  City of Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille switching on electrical connections in Imizamo Yethu on Friday. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – The City of Cape Town switched on the electrical connections of 355 families in Imizamo Yethu, Hout Bay, on Friday following devastating fires in the area in March.  In a short statement, Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille said 18 local residents were employed through the expanded public works programme to assist in the completion of the electrification project. The project forms part of a broader super-blocking project to deliver services such as water, sanitation, electricity, wider pathways and roads in the fire-affected area. Super-blocking is a process in which roads are established in informal settlements to ensure that basic services and emergency vehicles can easily access the area. "This milestone has been achieved as a result of months of collaboration between residents, community leaders and the City to deliver services to the fire-affected residents in Imizamo Yethu," De Lille said.  "Notwithstanding many challenges, progress has been made, together." Imizamo Yethu faced several protests since the blaze in March, with residents voicing their anger over the slow pace of reconstruction by the City of Cape Town. At the beginning of July, violent protests were sparked by dismal living conditions in the temporary three-by-three-metre corrugated iron structures that residents were moved into following the blaze. "When it’s raining, the rain is coming in these three-by-three shacks. Me, I’m staying [with] five [people] in that three-by-three [shack]," community leader Nosicelo Mtakatana told News24 at the time. READ: We are sick and tired of waiting - Imizamo Yethu resident Protest action ended when an agreement was reached between community leaders and the City of Cape Town, in which the city promised to speed-up super-blocking. In a statement at the time, De Lille said she has personally prioritised development in the area and community members will always have a direct line to her. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  