Pam Magwaza 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     There’s
a reason Durban is called South Africa’s playground.From
the tropical weather to the warm beaches and cool summer winds, it’s hard to
keep yourself from going there every holiday.However,
because of this Durban is also known for its infamous crowded beaches. Because
of the masses descending on the city, many beachgoers often lose their
valuables, children go missing and occasionally someone drowns.The
beaches that are usually packed to the rafters are North Beach, South Beach and
uShaka Marine World’s Beach.This,
however, doesn’t have to stop you from enjoying the Durban sun. We’ve
drawn up a list of 5 other beaches you can go to to escape the crowds while
still enjoying the warm Indian ocean.  Umdloti Beach It’s
just north of Durban and is a beautiful quiet haven for those seeking serenity. Although
the waves do tend to be quite steep, the beach offers a big lagoon-type
swimming area – ideal for snorkelling and swimming.  Ansteys Beach It’s
situated in the Bluff, which isn’t too far from the Durban CBD.  With
lifeguards, shark nets and waters shallow enough for swimming, this beach is an
ideal escape.  Amanzimtoti It’s
a little further from Durban but definitely holds its own when it comes to
breath-taking beauty. If
your family is staying in Durban, going to ‘Toti’, as it’s affectionately
called by locals, will provide a perfect excuse for a mini road trip to the
south of the city.  Zimbali beach This
is one of the most elite resorts to stay at while you’re in KZN but,
fortunately, for those who aren’t willing to spend thousands on an overnight
stay, access to the beach is free during the day. Although
the waves are quite rough, they’re perfect for surfing and the views are
breath-taking.  Umhlanga beach Okay,
we can’t promise Umhlanga won’t be a little packed but one can’t leave Durbs
without taking a “beach-vibe” photo by the famous lighthouse. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  