Paul Herman and Lizeka Tandwa North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo (File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – North West ANC chairperson Supra Mahumapelo says the party cannot allow its 54th national elective conference to "flop" at the last minute. Mahumapelo and his province, one-third of the so-called "premier league", is part of the camp that supported Ace Magashule's election as secretary-general by 24 votes.  - FOLLOW THE LIVE UPDATE Supporters of defeated candidate Senzo Mchunu have threatened to go to court if the "missing votes" are not added to the final tally. His lawyers have reportedly been briefed and are on standby. Speaking about the missing votes, Mahumapelo said the party would announce a decision later in the conference. "There's always court cases and threats now. It's the new normal," he told journalists at the Nasrec Expo Centre on Wednesday. 'We must accept the outcome' "We must remain focused on the strategic objective... and give hope to South Africans on the resolutions we are going to take here." The votes were quarantined due to delegates not appearing on the voters' roll, despite arguing for legitimate inclusion. The bulk of the votes reportedly come from regions that support Mchunu, including Limpopo and KwaZulu-Natal. Mahumapelo, however, says they should ensure conference concludes by Wednesday, as scheduled. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa camp divided over SG vote dispute "We must accept the outcome with its best and its worst as members of the ANC. If all cadres can do that, leave with the results of the ANC, whether you like them or don't like them. "We've come so far. We've worked so hard to maintain the dignity of the African National Congress. We can't flop at the last minute," Mahumapelo added. "Whatever happens, we must make sure that conference ends on a high, positive note."  WATCH: POLOTIKI LIVE: Crunch time - Those 60+ missing votes and NEC lists   Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  