Kagiso Rabada. (Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - News24 highlights Beaufort West's water woes; the EFF slams Donald Trump over his Jerusalem decision and find out how the ANC's election process work. Have a look at some of our leading stories:Steinhoff fights to survive after share plunge reaches 80%Steinhoff International has extended a record rout as concerns over an accounting scandal at the global furniture and clothing retailer outweighed its efforts to stay afloat by selling assets.Read more on Fin24 Jacques Pauw, News24 journalist to appear at police stationInvestigative journalists Jacques Pauw and Pieter-Louis Myburgh, who have both written about alleged corrupt relationships involving President Jacob Zuma, have been summoned to a meeting at a police station. Full story Rabada up to No 2 in Test rankingsProteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada has moved up to No 2 on the ICC Test bowler rankings.Sport24 has more Land of ThirstTo anyone passing through Beaufort West, the town seems like a typical, quiet Karoo “dorpie”. But its problems run deep. Have a look at this News24 multimedia experience by Aletta Harrison & Tammy Petersen EFF slams 'reactionary' Trump over Jerusalem decisionThe EFF has condemned US President Donald Trump's decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel's capital. ReadHow does the ANC's election process work?News24 politics editor Mahlatse Mahlase breaks down the ANC's election processes and tells us why we can't call a winner yet. Watch  Jailed King Dalindyebo disappointed by ANC Eastern Cape's failure to nominate woman deputyabaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo, who is currently in prison, has expressed his shock at the outcomes of the ANC Eastern Cape provincial general council which failed to elect a woman as deputy. MoreThis year’s most popular GIF is too damn relatable!2017 has been a heck of a year. And why grapple for the words to describe this year’s rollercoaster of emotions when there’s the perfect GIF to convey your sentiments.Channel24 has the storyCoffin case 'has been affecting me emotionally' - Victor MlotshwaCoffin assault victim Victor Mlotshwa says returning to court and seeing his attackers fighting for freedom has been an emotionally taxing ordeal.Click here for more Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  