Emmerson Mnangagwa is sworn in as President in Harare. (Ben Curtis, AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party provinces have
reportedly endorsed President Emmerson Mnangagwa's decision to appoint former
army chief Constantino Chiwenga and Minister of Defence, State Security and War
Veterans Cde Kembo Mohadi as his deputies. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, the party said
that the two "bring vast experience that will benefit both the party and the
nation". Mnangagwa last week named the former army chief who led a coup that ended Robert Mugabe's 37-year rule, as one of his two deputies
in the ruling party. Presidential press secretary George Charamba said at the time that
Chiwenga and Mohadi were appointed as Mnangagwa's deputies in the Zanu-PF
party "with immediate effect". The party appointment was a first step in their elevation to state
vice presidents. Two other top military officials were earlier this month
awarded ministerial posts. Zanu-PF
said the appointments were in line with the party’s time-honoured practice of
abiding by the 1987 Unity Accord signed between the former President Robert
Mugabe and late national hero Dr Joshua Nkomo.   Chiwenga
retired last week, slightly over a month after the military temporarily took
control of the country on November 15 as internal feuding escalated in Zanu-PF
over then president Mugabe's succession. The takeover which the army said was targeting Mugabe's corrupt
allies came days after the 93-year-old leader had fired then deputy Mnangagwa
who had strong military ties and was widely tipped as the likely successor. Mugabe's wife Grace had indicated interest in succeeding her
husband. The army's intervention was followed by mass street protests
against Mugabe and a motion to impeach the veteran ruler who resigned in a
letter to parliament as proceedings to recall him began. Zanu-PF then appointed Mnangagwa as Mugabe's replacement, leading
to his inauguration as the country's president on November 24. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  