Fever Reporter

 SAPS PRO Captain Charlene van der Spuy.PHOTO: SUPPLIED 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     SAPS have confirmed claims of alleged rape at Hutchison­ Park on Sunday, 3 December. “It is alleged the parents of the victim were at the Amanzimtoti Rugby Club. The victim and his sister were playing by the tennis courts.  The victim’s sister then joined their parents and he was left behind. He was accosted by two suspects and allegedly sexually assaulted,” SAPS PRO Captain Charlene van der Spuy said. A case of sexual assault is being investigated by SAPS. One suspect was arrested and appeared in the Durban Court on December 4. The suspect was remanded in custody pending the outcome of the bail application. The Amanzimtoti residents were outraged that vulnerable children are being victimised and abused in the community. Julie Muir Vivier of the Anti-Abuse and Empowerment Trust reiterated the importance of 16 Days of Activism. She said that the 16 Day campaign which is currently underway from November 25 until December 10 is an international campaign to raise awareness around the abuse of women and children.  “We aim to create awareness around this issue and appeal to men to play a pivotal role in protecting women and children and not be perpetrators of crime,” she added. She also encouraged victims to seek help and speak-out against abuse. To report abuse or for more information on the campaign contact, Amanzimtoti SAPS on 031 913 1300. TYPES OF ABUSE OR VIOLENCE: • Physical violence in the form of domestic violence - murder, robbery, rape and assault. • Emotional violence and trauma at many levels caused by many factors - women and children at home, at work, at school, on our streets and in communities suffer this form of violence for various reasons. • Poverty, starvation, humiliation and degradation, inequality and unemployment are conditions under which violence thrives.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  