Jan Bornman Mmusi Maimane.  (Monica Laganparsad, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The Democratic Alliance (DA) has called on NPA head Shaun Abrahams to vacate his office immediately, following a North Gauteng High Court ruling on Friday that declared his appointment unlawful. The DA made the call, despite an announcement that President Jacob Zuma intends to appeal the ruling. The High Court in Pretoria made the ruling on Friday morning in an application that several lobby groups had lodged to challenge a R17.3m golden handshake Zuma had offered to former NPA boss Mxolisi Nxasana to vacate his office. Abrahams replaced Nxasana. Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo ruled that it would not be just for Nxasana to be reinstated and that, due to his pending corruption case, Zuma was conflicted in appointing an NDPP. READ: 'Conflicted' Zuma stripped of his powers to appoint NPA boss The court ruled that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa should appoint a new NDPP in the next 60 days. In a statement, the presidency said: "Whilst the president awaits a full briefing on the judgment, he has been advised that an early assessment displays, with respect, various grounds upon which a successful appeal may be prosecuted." However, the DA is adamant that Abrahams must go immediately. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said in a statement that Abrahams should leave to allow someone competent to perform the job to take over. 'First state captured institution' "He has distinguished himself in his incompetence, by taking absolutely no proactive action on any of the allegations of corruption and state capture that have come to light in recent months," Maimane said. "He has deferred to the president and has consistently failed to assert his own independence and that of the NPA," he said. Maimane added that it was the second time that Zuma’s powers had been limited because he had been compromised. "Zuma has proved he is not willing to appoint an independent [National Director of Public Prosecutions] who will act without fear or favour towards him as president," Maimane said. "Predictably, the president has indicated he will appeal this judgment, another attempt to delay the start of the criminal trial he should have faced years ago," he said. Maimane said the NPA deserved an NDPP who would pursue the prosecution of the president with the vigour the case deserved. He said the NPA was the first state institution to be captured in the larger state capture story. "It is clear the president is incapable of exercising the powers of his office. Cyril Ramaphosa should act without delay and appoint a national director that will begin to restore the NPA’s reputation and its independence," Maimane said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  