Allister Coetzee (Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The Blitzboks defended their Dubai Sevens title with a 24-12 win over New Zealand in the Cup final, while at the same time in Cardiff, the Springboks went down to Wales in a tight affair (24-22), marking another disappointing loss for coach Allister Coetzee. Watch. WATCH Cape Town - ANC to report Makhosi Khoza's party to IEC over logo colours; An alleged rapist was arrested after falling asleep in the victim’s bed; and Darren Simpson leaves 947 to focus on KFM.Here are today’s top stories: Ramaphosa takes Limpopo Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has been nominated as the ANC presidential candidate for Limpopo, receiving a whopping 391 nominations.  Read more here Petrol price knock for motorists The price of petrol for all grades will increase by 71c a litre from Wednesday, the Department of Energy announced. Read here Coetzee takes Boks from 3rd ... to 6th When current Springbok coach Allister Coetzee took charge of his first Test, the national side were ranked third in the World Rugby rankings. Sport24 has more here 'It was because of Dr Barnard that my father got a second chance' Growing up, Candice Govender had found it difficult to believe that a heart could be removed from one person's chest and placed in another's, as Dr Chris Barnard and his team had done when they performed the world's first heart transplant in 1967. Read more here King Mabuza – president of South Africa in 2024? This week one candidate, more than any other, dominated the headlines: Mpumalanga premier, David Mabuza.  Read the full column here ANC to report Makhosi Khoza's party to IEC over logo colours The African National Congress will lodge a complaint with the Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) over the colours and logo of former ANC MP Makhosi Khoza's new party, the African Democratic Change (ADeC). Read here Alleged rapist arrested after falling asleep in victim's bed An alleged rapist has been arrested after he was found fast asleep in his victim's bed at a farm in Esnembe, north of Durban, a private security company said. More here Mugabe relatives cut ties with 'disrespectful' Grace 2 years ago – report Relatives of former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe have reportedly claimed that they cut ties with their daughter-in-law Grace Mugabe more than two years ago. Read here David Mabuza: from dirty politician to ANC kingmaker It now looks increasingly likely that a man who has been accused of masterminding the assassination of his political opponents, large-scale plundering of public funds, attempts to bribe journalists, and stashing away millions of undeclared rands at his farm will be elected ANC deputy president when the party meets in Johannesburg in two weeks’ time to vote for new leaders. Read more from Adriaan Basson here After 14 years Darren Simpson leaves 947 to focus on KFM Darren Simpson has announced that he will be saying goodbye to Joburg and 947 in December, to concentrate on the KFM 94.5 breakfast show in the Cape. Channel24 has more here Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  