Correspondent Members of the Umalusi council brief the media on this years matric examination. (Lizeka Tandwa, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria – Plans have been made for students who were affected by protests that took place during the matriculation examination period, quality control council Umalusi said on Friday. Mentioning examples such as 'Black Monday' protests against farm murders and taxi strikes, the quality control council said these had resulted in some of the students arriving late for examinations. ALSO READ: Umalusi approves matric results, no paper leaks but some irregularities Furthermore, "some would not be able to pitch up," said CEO Dr Mafu Rakometshi at a Council for Quality Assurance in General and Further Education and Training media briefing in Pretoria. "Some of those that arrive on time, they could be traumatised – and in an exam you have to be relaxed. "This has had a negative impact on learners." Register here to get your matric results Rakometshi and chairperson John Volmink explained that, in the cases where students actually missed examinations, two possible processes were followed. In subjects with more than one paper, students who wrote the first paper received an overall mark, calculated according to a formula.  WATCH: Umalusi stresses the need for quality education for all  However, in a case where they missed both papers or missed an examination for a subject that only had one paper, they become eligible to write supplementary examinations. ALSO READ: Education dept stands by 2016 matric results The council called on the public to do their part. "Even where there are pressing social issues, don’t target the period where examinations are written." Umalusi approved the results of the National Senior Certificate exams, with some provisos issued for individual cases of dishonesty. It gave the examinations a clean stamp in terms of any systematic irregularities or paper leakages.  WATCH: 2017 final exams declared 'Successful and credible'   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  