Robyn Lucas PHOTO: Instagram/@titusunlimited
 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     This
grandfather who lifts more than 200 kg puts most people half his age to shame.  Jean Titus,
from Washington DC in the US, has become an internet sensation after photos of his
buff body went viral.  Although he now
boasts a chiselled chest and massive
biceps, the 50-year-old wasn’t always this fit. 
 “Before I
got into fitness, I was a skinny kid,” Jean told the Daily Mail.  “Looking
back, I feel that I wasn’t as strong and that I hadn’t tapped into my true
physical potential.” Jean, who’s
been nick-named the “Ripped Grandpa”, reveals that he got into weight training 30 years ago while in college and has
“never looked back”.  “Weight-lifting
was a part of the strength and conditioning training programme for college
athletes, of which I was one. “I’ve realised over time that your most valuable
asset is your physical and mental health, which is why it’s so important to be
in shape,” he says.  The fitness
consultant and motivational speaker says he often gets shocked reactions and is
frequently asked about his workout routine and strict diet, Metro News reports. “People are
amazed by my physical abilities, due to my age. “On a daily
basis I have several people approach me, asking about my workout routine and
diet, and complimenting my physique,” he says. Jean trains
religiously and consumes four to five meals a day to maintain his toned physique.  “I train
five days a week for an hour-and-a-half each day and I feel pretty good about
my body. However, I’m always striving to make improvements. “On a
typical day I’ll consume four to five meals and on average 3,400 calories a
day,” he says.   Jean, who
has more than 138, 000 followers on Instagram, advises other aspiring fitness buffs to be consistent and
fall in love with their daily process and progress. “My advice
for anyone looking to get into fitness would be to focus on the daily tasks,
fall in love with the process and, most importantly, be consistent,” he says.   “You are your only competition. Make an effort
every day to beat yesterday’s output and with that mindset, in time you will
achieve your goals.” Sources: metro.co.uk, ladbible.com,dailymail.co.uk     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  