(Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Over 50 people have been injured and over 250 houses destroyed after a tornado hit the Vaal Marina in Gauteng on Monday evening.

.WATCH Cape Town - Oscar Pistorius has been injured in prison brawl; Certain Garden Route beaches have been closed as 7 sharks spotted and a documentary depicting race relations in Coligny.Here are today’s top stories: Detective removed from case against Jacques Pauw and News24 journalist KwaZulu-Natal police bosses have removed Colonel Reuben Govender as the investigating officer from a criminal case in which author Jacques Pauw and News24 investigative journalist Pieter-Louis Myburgh are the suspects. Read more here. Stealing sunflowers: A News24 documentary on race relations in Coligny Coligny is a small farming town in the North West province of South Africa. It was a typical sleepy town, shared by its mostly white residents and the black residents of the neighbouring township of Tlhabologang. Watch the full documentary here. Mugabe flies out to Far East for medical checks... his first trip since ouster – reports  Zimbabwe's former president Robert Mugabe, 93, has reportedly left the country for routine medical checks in Singapore - the nonagenarian's first foreign trip since his ouster in November.  More here. Vaal tornado leaves more than 1 000 homeless The tornado that ripped through the Vaal Marina has left more than a thousand people homeless. Read here and see pics here. Oscar Pistorius injured in prison brawl over phone Former Paralympic champion and convicted murderer Oscar Pistorius has been injured in a prison brawl over the use of a public phone, an official said. Read more here. All Blacks scoff at ‘Loftus factor’ The All Blacks have welcomed SA Rugby’s decision to host next year’s Rugby Championship match against the Springboks at Loftus Versfeld.  Sport24 has  more. Certain Garden Route beaches closed as 7 sharks spotted The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) has issued a caution advisory after Plettenberg Beaches were closed when several sharks were spotted close to the shore. Read more on Traveller24. Outlook bleak as SA sheds more jobs Employment levels declined during the third quarter of the year, with an analyst expecting employment to remain flat going forward. More here. The future lies with us, the people - not the ANC We, the people of South Africa, still hold the future of our country in our hands, regardless of who will be elected ANC leader next week and thus probably become our president next year. Read more from Max du Preez here.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  