Tammy Petersen Silicon mannequins representing doctors, nurses, and staff, together with some of the original equipment used in the world's first human-to-human heart transplant on December 3, 1967, are on display at the Heart of Cape Town museum, at Groote Schuur Hospital. (Rodger Bosch, AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Matters of the heart in tribute of one of the
world’s most celebrated surgeons are under the spotlight at Groote Schuur
Hospital, where Christiaan Barnard performed the first human-to-human heart transplant
in 1967. December 3 marks the 50th anniversary of the pioneering
operation in which Barnard transferred the heart of a person who had died of a
head injury to Louis Washkansky, 54. He lived for 18 days until he died of pneumonia. In commemoration of the ground-breaking procedure, surgeons
and cardiology experts from around the globe gathered at the hospital to honour
one of the medical world’s most respected names. The first part of Sunday morning's events was dedicated to
Barnard's life and legacy. - Read more: How a historic heart transplant created a celebrity scientist 50 years ago Conference declaration The three-day conference kicked off on Saturday with
specialists giving their input for a draft "Cape Town Declaration",
which will commit surgeons, academic and political heads to help the 33 million
people worldwide suffering from rheumatic heart disease. The disease damages a person’s heart valves due to untreated
infection of the throat with streptococcal bacteria and is said to mostly be
suffered by the poor. Professor Deon Bezuidenhout, of the University of Cape
Town’s cardiovascular research unit, explained that the experts attending the
symposium are from both industrialised and developing nations, who will put
their heads and hearts together to try and find solutions for the millions of
people who are not benefiting from cardiac surgery due to access and financial
issues. While the conference looks at the history and breakthrough
made by Barnard that "revolutionised medicine", it also focuses on
his courage and innovation, he said. "We are looking back and tipping our hats to what
happened 50 years ago, acknowledging and celebrating that anniversary. Then we
are looking at what has happened since then up until now, and how we have
improved cardiac surgery. "Then we are looking forward and seeing where we are
falling short, as well as what we can do further to improve the fate and lot of
millions of people who still don’t have that access." The aim of the declaration was to set in motion a plan to
address this, identify who would be involved, and set the first targets. "It’s obviously very difficult to eradicate a global
problem, but you need to start somewhere. The idea is to sow these seeds and
start with something that can then grow into something bigger." 'Something needs to be done' Heather Coombes, chief operations officer of UCT start-up
company Strait Access Technologies, said the symposium was the first step in a
commitment from role players to "do something". "It’s not acceptable that in the US you have one
cardiac centre for every 120 000 people, while in Mozambique two cardiac
centres service 27 million people and are situated two kilometres apart. "It’s not right. Something needs to be done. We need to
get access. We need to get these therapies into areas that need it." And it will take co-operation and input from government,
NGOs, academia, business, policy makers and healthcare workers themselves,
Bezuidenhout believes. "The conference is not about the First World coming to
sort out our problems. We have to do something and they may guide and help us.
It’s a commitment from all sides to acknowledge there is a problem and to
commit to do something about it." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  