Jan Gerber Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba. ( Jabu Kumalo) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip and speaker of council Jonathan Lawack both survived votes of no confidence against them during a disruptive and chaotic last council meeting of the year on Thursday. Watch. WATCH Cape Town – The ANC in Johannesburg lashed out at the "DA-EFF coalition", which defeated their motions to remove Herman Mashaba as mayor and Vasco da Gama as speaker of the metropole. "The outcome of [Thursday's] motions of no confidence in the Johannesburg Council against Mayor Herman Mashaba and the Speaker is a clear indication that the DA-EFF coalition is not in the interest of the City and its people," reads the statement from ANC Greater Johannesburg region spokesperson Jolidee Matongo. "Despite multiple evidence of Mashaba’s immeasurable failure to deliver on the local government constitutional mandate of service delivery, socio-economic development and community inclusion on municipal matters, both the DA and the EFF, together with their other coalition partners, prevented his removal," he said. On Thursday evening, 140 councillors voted against the Da Gama motion and 120 voted in favour. In Mashaba's case, 140 councillors voted against the motion and 121 voted in favour. As in Nelson Mandela Bay, the EFF voted with the DA. These two parties are not in a coalition, but reached a strategic agreement after last year's municipal election to keep the ANC out of power. ALSO READ: EFF rescues DA during no confidence motions against Mashaba, Da Gama The ANC has accused the "coalition government" of ignoring how Mashaba and his mayoral committee have been breaking the law in allegedly appointing unqualified friends to top municipal positions, and bringing in consultants to run the City, while more than 30 000 City workers are made redundant. "The coalition parties also turned a blind eye to the fact that good governance and the City’s finances are in shambles, as they continue to loot, while redirecting public attention away from their actions with unproven corruption allegations against the former administration of the African National Congress," Matongo said. He said the ANC in Johannesburg was disappointed with the outcome of the motions and "hope that history judges the DA-EFF coalition harshly for the destruction of a City that was once a shining example of South Africa’s progressive democracy". After the motions in Johannesburg and the motion against Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip were defeated, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said in a statement: "In the last 18 months, the Johannesburg and NMB [Nelson Mandela Bay] administrations have delivered quality services, acted on cases of corruption and created much-needed job opportunities. More has been done in this period than in the last 10 years. "We will not allow our opponents, who thrive on lies, corruption and disdain for the people of South Africa, to distract us from serving with humility." Before the motions were heard on Thursday, EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu tweeted that they would not support the motions by the ANC. "Any rational and sensible South Africa will know that of all devils, the ANC in its present form is not an option and can’t be trusted with political power. They must go jump!" he tweeted.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  