Shanaaz Prince PHOTO: Facebook/Alvin Garabold Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Her loved ones still
cannot believe the two dogs were responsible for the 22-year-old’s gruesome
death. Bethany Lynn Stephens’,
from Virginia in the US, adored her pet pitbulls Tonca and Pac-Man, having
raised them from puppies. But an autopsy has
confirmed that the animals mauled their owner to death. According to Daily
Mail, Bethany’s father John found his beautiful
blonde daughter’s body in the woods two days after she’d gone missing. He discovered her
body “aggressively” guarded by her two pitbulls. When authorities arrived, they
found the animals eating their dead owner’s body. “Let
me cut right to the chase,” County Sheriff James Agnew said at a later press conference. “I observed, as well
as four other deputy sheriffs, the dogs eating the ribcage of the body. "The
injuries were very severe." Police chased the
dogs for over an hour before finally capturing them and Bethany’s body was
removed from the scene, News.com reports. Agnew said Bethany
had defensive wounds on her hands and arms, “which would be consistent with
being attacked while she was still alive.” He added
that he didn’t have a history on the animals, but said they were “big, strong,
powerful dogs” that “you would suspect were bred for fighting, just in looking
at them.” “It appears
she was taken to the ground, lost consciousness, and the dogs then mauled her
to death.” Bethany’s friend, Barbara Norris, told a local TV station the dogs would
"kill you with kisses" before they'd attack, according to The Mirror. A post-mortem found
no signs of foul play or damage inflicted by a human being on Bethany’s body. Reports
suggest that at the time of her death, the dogs had been living with Bethany’s
father, John, who’d left the dogs outside. Animal
behavior expert from Cape Town, Dr Melvyn Greenberg, said that in America about eight
million dogs are put down annually, because of behavioural problems. Although
there are no reliable statistics for South Africa he says he knows most vets
put down one dog a month because of a behavioural problem. Dog
whisperer Pam Whyte believes dogs are “born good”. “But
if the dog’s “emergency nervous system” is activated by over-exercising and not
receiving enough kilojoules, the dog’s heart beats faster, its inhibitions
break down and this leads to inappropriate behavior,” she explains. Animal
behavior expert from Cape Town, Lucy Breytenbach, says that no matter what
breed, dogs can become aggressive. It’s important for owners to look out for
signs of discomfort shown by our dogs.   These could include, licking their lips,
turning their heads, avoiding eye contact and flattening their ears and body. “It’s
a pity that dogs sometimes feel there’s no option other than to bite,” she says. Despite
a change.org petition being set up to save Bethany’s two dogs from being put
down, Agnew confirmed both dogs were euthanised after their capture. Sources: mirror.co.uk; dailymail.co.uk; news.com.au  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  