Tammy Petersen Traffic officer vehicle. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Around-the-clock enforcement is on the cards for Western Cape roads this festive season, Transport and Public Works MEC Donald Grant warned on Tuesday. Intensified action by provincial traffic officials focusing on drunk driving, speeding and public transport compliance, among others, would receive special attention, despite resource constraints, he said in a statement. A total of 1 230 road deaths were recorded in the Western Cape between January and November, he confirmed ahead of the December holidays. "Over the past festive season - 1 December 2016 till 31 January 2017 - a total of 248 lives were lost on our roads. While this number showed a decrease in overall fatalities over this period compared to the previous year, the figure remains too high," he said. Exercise caution He urged motorists to "exercise extreme caution" when travelling, particularly at previously identified hotspots for incidents and crashes. These are the R27 West Coast, N1, N2, N7, R60, R62, R43/R45, N12 and R300, where enforcement operations will also take place. Grant said, since the implementation in July of random breath testing, over 20 000 motorists had been stopped and screened across the province.  "Hundreds of arrests have been made for motorists found to be over the limit," he said. Alcohol consumption, even in small amounts, and getting behind the wheel of a vehicle or walking increased the risk of being involved in a crash for both motorists and pedestrians, Grant said. "Not only does alcohol impair processes critical to safe road use, such as vision and reaction time, it is also associated with poor judgement and so is often linked to other high-risk road use behaviours, such as speeding or not using seat-belts." Enforcement agencies were "very serious about adopting a no-nonsense approach" this holiday season, he warned. "Drivers must be warned that their errant and life-threatening behaviour on our roads will land them in jail. We cannot continue to see lives lost so senselessly on our roads as a result of dangerous driver behaviour and general lawlessness."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  