Kaveel Singh The SACP in KwaZulu-Natal addressing the media. (Kaveel Singh, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – SA Communist Party leaders in KwaZulu-Natal have called for a "unity conference" to deal with ongoing tensions between itself and the rudderless ANC executive in the province.  Provincial secretary Themba Mthembu made the declaration on Thursday, following the SACP's final provincial executive council (PEC) meeting for 2017.  Mthembu said the ANC's 54th elective conference had shown that the ruling party could still "self-correct". He said that, despite tensions between the SACP and ANC in the province, he was still calling for unity.  Unite warring factions Mthembu said that the alliance could use the elective conference to "unite the warring factions". He added that the court case, which disbanded the ANC PEC, could be used to foster peace talks.  "We should use this opportunity for the two groups to sit down and smoke a peace pipe and unite the ANC and unite the people of KZN. This is what everybody would like to see." He said that there was a need to remove some "rough elements". "Let me be clear, we must also isolate the rough elements, all of us must do that." He said that, going into the elective conference, the alliance in KwaZulu-Natal had suffered, and that it could learn from its mistakes.  "The main lesson is that you cannot expect to win any big battle with a wounded and divided army. Let us take a collective blame." Mthembu said that he hoped the newly elected ANC national executive committee (NEC) would ensure there was leadership for the party in the province. "We appreciate a situation, knowing the ANC is a ruling party, and cannot afford to have a political vacuum. We hope the new NEC will take that as their first priority." Mthembu also said the SACP would have to reflect on why its members had seemingly been snubbed for NEC membership. "We need to strongly reflect and do introspection and why we were snubbed. We need to look at ourselves before another person. We need to engage the ANC on many fronts." He welcomed the land expropriation proposal saying it meant a better future for SA's majority.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  