Amanda Khoza City of Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba. (Leon Sadiki, Gallo Images, City Press) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – With the help of the Economic Freedom
Fighters, a motion of no confidence against City of Johannesburg executive
mayor, Herman Mashaba, and council speaker, Vasco da Gama, failed on Thursday
night. During Da Gama's motion, which was heard at around 19:00,
there were 140 councillors who voted against the motion and 120 that voted in
favour of the motion. In Mashaba's case, 140 councillors voted against the motion
and 121 voted in favour of the motion. Keeping in line with the decision taken at the Nelson
Mandela Bay council meeting, the Economic Freedom Fighters voted with the
Democratic Alliance. - As it happened: Mashaba survives motion of no confidence  Proceedings at the 16th ordinary council meeting at the City
of Johannesburg Council's new council chambers, began with a DA march with
supporters protesting outside the chambers against the removal of Mashaba and
Da Gama. After addressing the crowd, DA leader Mmusi Maimane entered
the chambers, briefly listening to various matters being discussed, which
included tabled reports on finance, housing, community development and
transport, among others. Councillors were clearly excited to hear the motions as they
referred to the earlier proceedings as "the curtain raiser because the
main event was later". Da Gama motion When Da Gama's motion was eventually tabled, he excused
himself as the speaker and the proceedings continued under a presiding speaker. ANC councillor Jolidee Matongo was first to debate the
motion. Matongo accused Da Gama and the executive of withdrawing
some crucial reports and said the speaker had favourites in the chambers. The ANC's Sello Lemao said, "We have seen councillors
being suppressed willy-nilly without the application of the rule book." Lemao also pointed out that Da Gama rarely allowed
councillors to speak in their mother tongues. The DA's Thami Mabhena slammed the ANC's accusations, saying
Da Gama had executed his duties with excellence, fairness and in a balanced
fashion. Both the African Independent Congress and Patriotic Alliance
said they would vote in favour of the motion while the EFF's Silumko Mabona
said the party intended voting against the motion. When the announcement was made that the motion had failed,
some ANC councillors objected and demanded that officials conduct a head count
of councillors in favour and against. After counting, it was confirmed and Da Gama took back his
seat in the chambers - much to the ANC's disappointment. ANC councillors sang an Oliver Tambo struggle song called
"Oliver Tambo bamba isandla sami (loosely meaning Oliver Tambo, hold my
hand)," while clapping and dancing. Mashaba motion Mashaba appeared nervous when the motion of no confidence
against him was tabled. Again, members debated stating reasons why Mashaba deserved
to be the mayor and why he was not fit to serve Johannesburg residents. ANC councillor Geoffrey Makhubo said it was the aggregation
of the people's power, through the coalition, that had plunged the city into a
financial crisis. "Councillor Mashaba is not up to the task, he is way
out of his depth," Makhubo told the packed chamber. He added that the City of Johannesburg needed "a mayor,
not a successful businessman". Another ANC councillor Isaac Tolo accused Mashaba for
wasting taxpayers' monies by conducting endless investigations. Pettiness  DA's councillor Funzela Ngobeni said the ANC should practice
being the opposition party because that is what it should expect to happen in
2019. "Judging by their pettiness, the road ahead is going to
be long and windy," he said. "We are unearthing this corruption on a daily basis.
This corruption we are unearthing will talk directly to councillor Parks Tau...
A lot is coming, they must not rush the war, we are coming," he said. EFF's councillor Musa Novela questioned the genuineness of
the motion. "The EFF is going to vote against this motion but not
vote in favour of Herman Mashaba. We are voting against corruption," said
Novela. Again, the AIC and PA expressed their disappointment in
Mashaba and his administration and said they would vote in favour of the
motion. Once the motion was concluded, councillors voted, counting
was done and Mashaba could breathe a sigh of relief. Proceedings continues after the motions were debated. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  