Iavan Pijoos iStock 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Tiso Blackstar on Thursday confirmed that it had instituted disciplinary action against senior Sunday Times reporter Jan-Jan Joubert. Sunday Times editor Bongani Siqoko said it was an internal matter at this stage.  "We can't really talk about it at this stage, it is between us, the employer, and the employee. We will release a statement once everything has been concluded," Siqoko said. DA MP Gavin Davis laid a complaint with the Press Ombudsman about an article headlined: "Veil of secrecy as DA policy chief quits amid tensions ahead of 2019". It was published in The Times on October 30.  Joubert and Thabo Mokone reported that the DA had thrown a veil of secrecy over the resignation of its policy chief and head of media, Davis, "who quit in the middle of the party's policy formulation process ahead of the 2019 elections". Use of anonymous sources, no corroboration The resignation was allegedly over differences of opinion with colleagues about the formulation of policies and communication strategies. Joubert and Mokone also reported that a party insider claimed that Davis, a member of Helen Zille's inner circle during her tenure as party leader, was disgruntled with the DA's policy direction under its present leader, Mmusi Maimane.  The article claimed sources said that Davis did not see eye to eye with the DA's new director of communication, Siviwe Gwarube, who denied this allegation. Davis complained that the journalists did not avoid the use of anonymous sources and did not take care to corroborate information – with special reference to the alleged tension between Gwarube and himself. According to Davis, he was also not given right of reply and the journalists did not avoid a conflict of interests.  He also complained that a longer version of the same story was published on the websites Dispatchlive, Businesslive, Sowetanlive and Timeslive. Journalists urged to act independently A ruling by the Press Ombudsman on November 29 dismissed the complaint. The South African National Editors' Forum (Sanef) on Thursday reminded journalists of the preamble of the press code which states: "As journalists we commit ourselves to the highest standards, to maintain credibility and keep the trust of the public. This means always...acting independently." Sanef had also urged journalists to report on the upcoming ANC elective conference without fear or favour, and to uphold the highest standards of ethics as prescribed in the press code.  The organisation said it was disappointed at the recent attempt to reveal the sources in Jacques Pauw's book, The President's Keepers.  "The protection of sources is at the heart of our profession and no journalist, whether in a rival organisation or not, should ever jeopardise a source. Our members are reminded that this protection of sources by journalists is sacrosanct." Sunday Independent published a report over the weekend that claimed that former finance minister Pravin Gordhan, former intelligence head Moe Shaik and former South African Revenue Service officials Ivan Pillay and Johann van Loggerenberg were the sources of Pauw's book.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  