Gabisile Ngcobo PHOTO: Supplied 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     His job was almost done. He was just extinguishing what was left of the fire at the
storage facility. He didn't anticipate that anything would go wrong.  But the fire station manager from Limpopo almost lost his
life in an explosion. Speaking from his ward at the Netcare Milpark Hospital, Gert
van Jaarsveld (44) also known as Gary, says he's grateful to be alive. Gert, who has 21 years of experience, received a call a
community member about the OK Furniture store at Groblersdal was on fire around
6pm on November 30. "I dispatched the whole fire station by the time I
arrived at the scene they were there already," he tells YOU from his
hospital bed. They tried to stop the fire from spreading to the
neighbouring buildings. "At this stage, we needed an extra hose on the line so
that it can reach the back storage facility," he recalls. "I went out and asked one of the guys to add a line so
that we can be closer to the other room where there was still fire."  He then needed the pressure on the hose to be increased and
his crew member went outside to do that. In a matter of seconds there was an explosion in front of
his eyes while he was waiting, he recalls. Gert believes that it was the gas cylinders on the
compressors of the fridge that reacted to the heat. He explains that as the gas filled the room and met with
oxygen it started to burn the ceiling. "The smoke and the heat were coming down," he
says. "I realised I was burning." Everything became pitch black and couldn't see a thing. He
tried to find his way out but there was furniture obstructing his exit. In the
process, he lost his hamlet. "I couldn't pick it up because it was too hot." Someone also took his gloves to probably open the door or
move the furniture while they were changing the hoses. He used the back of his hands as he was trying to maneuverer
his way out of the store. They're now badly burnt and he may need skin
grafting. "I realise I was going to die because of the heat,"
he reveals. That's when he said a short prayer. 
 "I just stopped and I said, 'Lord please not like this'." It's in that moment when he said looked up, he saw the light
and started walking towards it.  He could hear people speaking and he reached the door and
collapsed. He was immediately dragged to the ambulance by the security
personnel and community members. "That's when my face mask pulled against my face as an
indication that the oxygen on my back was finished." He was stabilised at a hospital in Grobersdal before being
transferred to Milpark. Gert's burn wounds on his neck, ears and knees healing very
well. He still can't use his hands and relies on his wife Trudie
and nurses to feed and bathe him. "As a family, we can just thank the community and the
Lord and everyone who stood by us in the process." His near-death experience has taught him he's never alone,
he says. Despite the challenges, Gert is proud of the job that his team does in
trying to save the people, property and the environment. "We put our lives in each other's hands. I trust them
with my life," he says. "I heard the guys were there until 11 pm that
night." He can't stop thanking God. "Nobody understands where the light came from...
Somebody gave me the light inside," he says. "It's not somebody it's God," his wife interjects. Two years ago this father of two was hit by a heart attack
and a stroke while on a rescue mission and doctors said there was nothing they
could do for him. "I was hysterical but we prayed for him," Trudie
said, adding that he has since recovered fully.  Trudie says she's always praying for her husband before he
goes to any job. "I ask for protection and sometimes I go with him but
this one wasn't even a big call," she adds. Gert can't wait to go back to work.   "There's still work that need to be done and people who
need our assistance," he says. He admits that some days are scary and risky but he always
takes them as a learning curve and he lives by the firemen's prayer. He says you can't be a firefighter just for a paycheque. "But it's about passion and the pay cheque is just a
bonus." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  