Jan Gerber Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. (Leon Sadiki, City Press) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – The ANC Youth League called Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa an "American puppet" after his "unfortunate comments" where he said he "would believe" Fezekile Kuzwayo - also known as Khwezi – who accused President Jacob Zuma of raping her in 2005. On Thursday evening, Ramaphosa was interviewed by 702's Karima Brown, who pressed him on whether he believed Khwezi. At first, Ramaphosa said he had to go with the outcome of the court case in 2006, in which Zuma was acquitted, but he also had to take heed of what Khwezi had said, and that he had sympathy for her. After Brown again put the question to him, Ramaphosa said he understood how difficult it was for women to come forward with allegations of sexual violence. "Yes, I would believe her," Ramaphosa added. On Friday afternoon, ANCYL spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize released a press statement, responding to Ramaphosa. "The ANCYL notes the unfortunate comments of an ANC Deputy President, Cde. Cyril Ramaphosa on Radio 702, where he directly attacks a seating (sic) President of the ANC," reads the statement. "The direct attack, in our view, stems from his response where he said 'Yes I believe Khwezi', in reference to the rape trial where President Jacob Zuma was acquitted (sic)." However, in his exact words during the 702 interview, Ramaphosa said “yes, I would believe her", when asked by Brown if he believes Kwezi when she said that Zuma raped her. READ: I would believe her - Ramaphosa shocks on Khwezi's rape allegation against Zuma Mkhize said the ANCYL felt a strong need to "respond categorically to this bile spewed" by Ramaphosa. "This is bile because this is an act of a desperation at a full demonstration and prove that his conscious has long left him and not under any circumstance does he show that he can lead the ANC (sic)," reads the statement. "The ANCYL is shocked that a dead person would be used to advance a selfish personal agenda, despite the fact that an independent judicial organ of the state have made a judgement on the matter. Thus, we feel strongly that this is not only a direct attack on the president of the ANC and his integrity but a reckless and unfortunate remark to be made by this American puppet. "We call upon this fellow to publicly respond for this recklessness or face the full might of the ANC rule book (sic)." "We wish to caution Cde Cyril Ramaphosa to refrain from this inanity and behave and get it clear in his mind that it will not change the fact that he will never be a president of the ANC in this lifetime and attacking an outgoing ANC president will never increase his chances to even come close to his self serving ambitions."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  