Marlise Scheepers PHOTO: Facebook 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     All is well with 11-year-old Mikayla Robbertse, who was
bitten by a Mozambique spitting cobra on her left hand and elbow six years ago
in Lephalale (previously Ellisras), Limpopo. Her grandmother and foster mom, Charmain Robbertse, told
YOU Mikayla got 80 percent for maths at school this year and her marks in all
her other subjects were above 70 percent. “She’s also doing very well in her piano lessons,”
Charmain says. Mikayla was bitten by the snake on 19 December, exactly
six years ago, while in bed at the Robbertses’ farm. After the incident she underwent 38 surgeries to recover
the use of her hand. The venom of the Mozambique spitting cobra damages body
tissue. “When she’s older she’ll be able to decide for herself it
she wants to have reconstructive surgery,” Charmain said. “At this time of the year we tend to get quite paranoid,”
she added. The family still lives in Pretoria, where they’d
relocated to in order to be closer to medical services, and they will be in
Pretoria for the Christmas holidays. “I receive so many
requests: How are things with Kayla, really? Thank you very much to all the
people who are still being so kind and who care so much. She is really doing
very well.   “Kayla amazes us every day
– she lives to the full and nothing deters her. Healthwise she’s in excellent
shape and emotionally she’s as strong as ever. We’re learning every day from
her belief and love of God. She lives to make other kids and the people around
her happy, and she’s happiest when she can bring joy to somebody, even it’s
just the smallest gesture.  Charmain also keeps loved
ones updated on her granddaughter’s progess on Facebook. “She’s
as cheeky as ever and has us shrieking with laughter often,” she shared
recently. “Believe me, she’s good at taking chances – like any other child.
She’s doing well playing the piano and early next year she’ll be starting
guitar lessons. Oh yes, she believes she can sing like a nightinggale. I also
thinks she sings beautifully, but I don’t think everyone will agree with that. “Thanks
to God’s guidance and love we have absolutely nothing to compain about.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  