
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Kano - Boko Haram Islamists killed a soldier and wounded three others in a raid on a military post in northeast Nigeria, military and militia sources told AFP on Friday. The jihadists attacked the troops at about 17:45 (1645 GMT) on Thursday in Gajibo village near Dikwa, some 90km east of the Borno state capital, Maiduguri. In line with previous attacks on soldiers and army bases, the Islamic State group affiliate seized weapons. A military officer said: "We lost one soldier in an encounter with Boko Haram in Gajibo when the terrorists attacked a military location. "Three other soldiers were injured in the encounter," said the officer, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorised to speak on the incident. Militant fighters "temporarily took over" the military post when soldiers withdrew, added a member of the civilian militia force assisting troops with security. "The soldiers staged a counter-attack and repelled the terrorists, who took away arms and ammunitions left behind by troops," he said. Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari said in December 2015 that Boko Haram was "technically" defeated as a result of a sustained military fight-back. But the threat to civilians remains high from repeated suicide bombings on so-called "soft targets".  Last month, at least 50 people were killed when a teenage boy detonated his explosives at a mosque in the town of Mubi in Adamawa state, next door to Borno. There has also been a spate of hit-and-run raids, as well as attacks on military bases and troops. At least three soldiers were killed and six others wounded in a raid on the town of Magumeri, 50km northwest of Maiduguri, last Saturday. Some 69 people were killed, most of them soldiers and civilian militia members, in the same area last July when Boko Haram fighters attacked an oil exploration team. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  