Kalisha Naicker Madison Layla Bromfield and Siphoseth Ncgobo say ‘dance is their life’.PHOTO: Supplied 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     UPPER Highway lass, Madison Bromfield (16), competed in the 2017 South African Dance Teachers’ Association (Sadta) All South African Open championships and brought home gold by winning in the Rising Star Adult Ballroom category and Rising Star Youth Latin awards recently. For Madison and her talented partners Siphoseth­ Ncgobo and Sibusiso Ndlovu, “dance is life”.  She says she misses things some people take for granted like going to the movies and parties because practice and training takes up a lot of her time, however, she is always motivated and strives for excellence. “I started dancing at the age of three and have mastered many styles of dance, but Latin and ballroom are my greatest loves.” She said dance is in her blood as she comes from a family of dancers and began dancing the moment she heard a beat. “I started Latin and ballroom at age seven after my gran insisted on a good grounding of ballet and began competing at the age of 10 with my partner Dylan Botes.” Speaking about her role models she said: “Dancers have many role models - you learn something from every dancer and we try and dance with as many visiting dancers and coaches as we can.  “We are trained by Rosemary Wingrove at Kloof for Ballroom, Ryan Yunnie from Dance Basics in Durban and Mpo from Dancesport Konekt in Winston Park for Latin.”  She said she and her partners have won many titles and have numerous trophies and medals to their name.  “I have also brought home wins in hip-hop and freestyle in KZN and other provinces.  “This year has been amazing year for me and my talented partners with wins at many Latin and ballroom competitions.” She says aspiring dancers must “dream big”.  “Believe in yourself and work hard and you will reap the rewards. It is an expensive sport and so at times can be very demoralising, but push through the hard times and reach for the stars.  “Treat dancers with love and respect and show kindness always,” she added. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  