Deon Wiggett PHOTO: Liam Hamer-Nel 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     It is
surprisingly easy to fail at being an Afrikaner. Behave the wrong kind of badly
in Stellenbosch and the decision is final: the tribe has spoken. Stellenbosch
inhabits a special misty-eyed place in the Afrikaner psyche. Like so many
Boland towns, it is disturbingly picturesque. But its clout sets it apart.
Unlike Franschhoek or Paarl, it has free-thinking academics, freeloading
students and achingly
rich Afrikaners who may not be from there, but love calling it home. If you
want to leave South Africa, Stellenbosch is a great place to go. The town
constitutes a melange of pastoral Europe and apartheid. Coming from the N1, you
pass between Kayamandi’s corrugated iron and Idas Valley’s ganglands until you
reach a bridge over an undeveloped buffer zone between the poor and some light
industry. But keep making your way down Bird Street and, by the time you’ve
passed Pep, you are leaving all that unpleasantness behind. You have reached
the Stellenbosch that rich people mean when they say “Stellenbosch”. To get to
the really, really good part of town, you need to take a left, drive through
the university campus and carry on a bit to the stately homes beyond. That’s an
ideal place to view some of the capitalists who captured the university. If I had
an entirely different personality, I could have been a white with monopoly
capital. I matriculated from the Paul Roos Gymnasium in Stellenbosch; I studied
at the university; I have met the capitalists and, more extensively, their
children. At school, they were almost exclusively bullies, making them
particularly suited for monopoly capitalism. Maybe it
would have been different if I played rugby. That in itself validates my
decision not to play rugby. Along with the fact that I don’t like being mauled
on lawns by muscle men. The
Stellenbosch Mafia is a loose and loosely unfair name for the
Afrikaner-industrial complex seated in the town. Its members include Johann
Rupert and Jannie Durand from Remgro; Dr Edwin Hertzog from Mediclinic
International; Jannie Mouton of PSG; and the now embattled figures of Christo
Wiese, Whitey Basson and Markus Jooste. (For full effect, I encourage you to
read their names in an Afrikaans accent. The disgraced former chief executive
officer of Steinhoff is not called “Marcus”.) Disgrace in the dorp The
biggest tumble from grace has been for Wiese, his son Jakob and his protégé
Jooste. The scandal at Steinhoff grows every time you go to the loo. Last week,
Jooste
left in disgrace. On Thursday night, it was Wiese’s
turn to be humiliated. Steinhoff said he “offered to resign” as
chairperson. It was all his call, Steinhoff’s board appeared to insist, as
if it ever insisted on anything else. I do not
allege any criminality on the part of Bekker, Wiese, Stellenbosch or any other
names or places I might mention. Some of the sharpest minds at the National
Prosecuting Authority will decide that for themselves should they become
available again. More
interesting, to me, is the reputational collapse of the dynasties that cast
their malevolence across swathes of my youth. Born and bred secure in comfort,
they form less a mafia than a Broederbond 2.0 – leaner than the legacy ware and
optimised for a captured South Africa. Of rugby and residences Broeders
2.0, of course, are just the latest incarnation of Stellenbosch’s long line of
cynical nobility. From the time Simon
van der Stel founded the second white settlement of a freshly colonised
South Africa, the town has been ruled by a clique of Dutch-Afrikaans folk who
understand the Stellenbosch sleight of hand. The town’s beauty and academic
rigour mask the machinations of an entitled, patriarchal clan that have
captured so much of South Africa’s riches. They got
away with it for so long because it all seemed so legit. They got
their capital under apartheid, but South Africa’s re-entry into the
world after 1994 would truly make their capital take flight. It really
did soften the blow of losing the country. Besides,
who needs South Africa if you can have Stellenbosch? It has always had the
infrastructure to recruit
and deploy the Super Afrikaners. How do
they do it? Residences [http://www0.sun.ac.za/pgstudies/living-in-stellenbosch-1.html]
and rugby [www.matiesrugby.co.za/sponsors]. Maybe Steinhoff only
became widely known once it fell into disrepute, but not in
Stellenbosch. Go to Maties rugby matches on Saturdays at Coetzenburg Stadium
and you’re in for a Steingasm. Not only does Steinhoff sponsor
the university’s rugby team and all other sporting codes, it sponsors
every single residence’s rugby team too. Any given Saturday, you might see Steinhoff
Dagbreek take on Steinhoff Wilgenhof. The winners will take on Steinhoff
Eendrag, who trounced Steinhoff Huis Marais for a place in the finals. I have no
idea whether these examples represent plausible rugby outcomes. I understand
more of string theory than I understand of rugby, and I do not understand
anything about string theory. If you
wish to become an Afrikaner capitalist, missing the rugby at Coetzenburg is not
a good idea. It’s your choice venue to meet the captains of Afrikanerdom.
Apparently. I never went because it sounds dull, but I take other people’s word
for both the existence of rugby at Coetzenburg and the concomitant presence of
the Super Afrikaners. It’s not
like otherwise you would run into Christo Wiese in Woolworths. Although, I am
told, there’s a good reason for that. Wiese’s household can not be seen buying
groceries from somewhere that isn’t Checkers. What is a monopoly capitalist to
do when he craves that smoked snoek pâté that only Woolies makes just right? You make
Woolies close late for you. You can buy all the spreads you want when the
public is not standing by to judge you or pâté from Checkers. I like to
think I am a detribalised Afrikaner, but I suspect the Afrikaners divorced me
long before I realised it. Here’s how the incubator works: Privileged Afrikaner
men from across the nation arrive in Stellenbosch after matric. They go
straight into residence to get subsumed by “koshuis kultuur”, which essentially
consists of rugby and bullying, ensuring only the fittest survive for national
selection. The
koshuis boys don’t need to be told that rugby matters more than the Old
Testament. They grew up Afrikaans: they know. And so they start wearing
Steinhoff jerseys and, with it, get to cosy up to the capitalists at
Coetzenburg. How to survive in Stellenbosch It is
Stellenbosch’s salvation that its dominant patriarchal culture has spawned a
glorious counterculture. It largely consists of humanities students and their
lecturers, and it makes the town entirely bearable. Big up to
my homies in Stellenbosch – enlightened, progressive people who describe the
Broeder Bullies in words too harsh to be acceptable at a Steinhoff board
meeting, unless, obviously, Christo Wiese said them first, then it’s his call. If you
become a student next year, you will be faced with one of life’s great choices.
Will you choose to be idealistic or complicit? I would urge idealism, which is
the word complicit people use to refer to ethics. You don’t
have to be a doos to live in Stellenbosch. But if you are determined to be a
Super Afrikaner, please follow these guidelines: - Do
not be gay.
If you are gay, don’t be. No touching of other penises, ever. - Go to
koshuis. Lots of gay
things happen there, but it doesn’t make you gay. What happens in
Dagbreek, stays in Dagbreek. - Play
rugby, watch rugby, be the rugby. - Lad
it up. Alpha males make the Broeder Bullies weak at the knees. - Lap it
up. Accept invitations to all the right parties. If you are not invited to the
right parties, they do not want you there. Move on. Disgrace of the broeders Christo
Wiese, accepting a lifetime achievement award at 2015’s Sunday Times Top 100
Companies gala, bristled
at suggestions that business has a purpose beyond profit. “We are
business people, not politicians,” the now deposed Wiese said at the event.
“Or, put differently, the business of business is business. On that basis, we
should engage with government not in ideological debates. Those are debates for
politicians. We should, however, speak out with respect and constraint on
issues that are nonideological and that require pragmatic and practical
solutions.” Pragmatic,
practical solutions. How neatly that phrase would come to apply to corporate
governance at Steinhoff – and lately at MultiChoice. We’ve all
been talking
an awful lot about the Guptas’ capture of the state. But they are not
the only ones. Broeder Bullies captured
the state in apartheid already and have not let go. The
disgrace of the Broeders is a Christmas gift to all progressive Afrikaans
people. When we encounter racists at a braai, they can no longer tell us it’s
the blacks and three Indians involved in all the mischief. Check this out, oom
en tannie. If you can’t trust someone called Christo or Markus, there clearly
is no Afrikaner superiority. We’re a nation of Rainbow Monopoly Capital, as
Carlos Amato dubbed us in the Sunday Times. It is all South Africans against a
handful of rainbow capturers. From the
cooled interiors of their stately homes, the Broeder Bullies still survey their
precious town. But in the dying days of 2017, a sleight of hand was called out
and an illusion was shattered. The Super Afrikaners have lost their tended veneer
of invincibility and respectability. I left
town 17 years ago, but I still wonder what an uncaptured Stellenbosch might
look like. If it ever starts raining there again, it would not be the worst
place to call home. Wiggett is founder and creative director of Fairly Famous 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  