Tshidi Madia Solly Mapaila. (Bongiwe Gumede, City Press) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The ANC must exclude its outgoing president Jacob Zuma from debates around issues of corruption, the SACP says.  Zuma hit out at the ANC’s alliance partners during the delivery of his final political report at the party’s 54th national elective conference, currently underway at Nasrec, in Johannesburg.  He listed some of the causes of tension between himself and those in the tripartite alliance, including the SACP marching with civil society groupings and the opposition, demanding that he steps down as head of state, while trade union federation Cosatu banned Zuma from addressing any of its gatherings. The president was also booed as workers refused to hear from him at the trade union federation’s Workers Day rally in May. "He couldn’t go deep [in his speech] because even if even if he was to go deep, he could not be the one speaking out against corruption, when he has presided over massive corruption of our state resources," said SACP’s first deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila. He was referring to state capture allegations, which have placed the president and his close friends, the Gupta family, at the centre of a project aimed at looting state resources.  Zuma is also accused of allowing the controversial family to have a say in some of his key decisions, including the appointments of members of his executive. Speaking to News24 following Zuma’s address. Mapaila said the ANC needed to deal with the issue of corruption, without the president’s input. "It’s an area that conference must take away from him and reflect [on] themselves properly, independent of his views, so that we are able to come with a clear position coming forward," said Mapaila. He said Zuma had delivered a comprehensive report, loaded with theory, but that throughout his years as president of the liberation movement, he had failed in the practical aspects of his task. Mapaila said Zuma was disingenuous when it came to tensions in the tripartite alliance. This was after the president told delegates that he bore no grudges and that he would have preferred for issues to be dealt with internally. "He didn’t give the reasons as to what caused that," said Mapaila, defending the alliance partners' decision to go public with their wishes to see the president recalled. "We couldn’t meet as an alliance for more than a year, because he didn’t want us to," he said. "He is creating an impression that these comrades decided to just come out in public, while actually there have been many attempts to meet internally... [it] is disingenuous."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  