Jan Bornman Hawks. (Theana Breugem, Media24, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The Hawks arrested two of its own officers in Johannesburg this week following the theft of R1m in September. Gauteng Hawks spokesperson Captain Ndivhuwo Mulamu said two members from the Hawks’ Serious Commercial Crimes unit were arrested along with a detective from the Hillbrow police station. Warrant officer Tefo Maimane, 49, and Warrant officer Eric Melaphi, 41, were arrested in Edenvale while Constable Khumbulo Gadivhana, 36, was arrested in Hillbrow. Mulamu said a fourth suspect is still outstanding and the elite crime fighting unit was still trying to track him down. Mulamu said the four officers were accused of pulling over a car and stealing money from the driver in Norwood in September. "The driver insisted that they proceed to the nearest police station. He was hauled to Norwood police station where a search was conducted and the four allegedly found two boxes full of cash including a receipt indicating the total amount which the victim had exchanged for his employer," Mulamu said. "The suspects allegedly left the police precinct and proceeded to the Johannesburg Specialised Commercial Crimes Court building on Eloff Street in a police escort.  They allegedly offloaded the two boxes and entered one of the offices where they shared R1m and returned the remainder to the driver," she said. Mulamu said head of the Gauteng Hawks, Major General Prince Mokotedi, expressed his gratitude to members for the courage to arrest "their own". "Since we implemented a zero tolerance to corruption, we have arrested 102 police officials in Gauteng from March 2016 to date.  The serious corruption investigation unit was beefed-up with 18 members and we are now reaping the fruits of arresting corrupt individuals," Mokotedi said. "I want to warn unscrupulous members that we will not relax until the Hawks, particularly in Gauteng, gets rid of all the bad elements," he said. Maimane, Melaphi and Gadivhana appeared briefly at the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday but will be back in court on December 27 for a formal bail application.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  