Aishah Cassiem
 @Aishah_Cassiem Nawaal Jacob and her family from Hanover Park have been left homeless after a fire broke out at their home last Monday.PHOTOS: AISHAH CASSIEM Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A family from Hanover Park has been left distraught after their Lansman Walk home burnt down on Monday morning last week. According to homeowner Nawaal Jacobs, the fire started next door. It damaged two council homes and several backyard ­dwellings. Jacobs’s son Aslam Conlan and his nine-year-old daughter Ashura were rushed to hospital after being seriously injured while trying to get outside. “I am still in shock and still trying to come to terms with what happened to my family and my home of 22 years. We were all sleeping at the time the fire broke out. When I woke up, I saw huge flames. This was just after 01:00 in the morning. The fire spread very quickly. We rushed out screaming, and informed my daughter’s family who also resides on the premises,” she says. “She grabbed her baby and her husband ran back in to get their other daughter Ashura, who was still fast asleep. He grabbed her and tried heading out. The fire surrounded them. They burned badly and they didn’t even know it ’til later.” Jacobs says the two suffered burns to their faces, chests and arms and are recovering in hospital. “They were rushed to the intensive care unit at Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital. I am just glad that they are alive. We managed to get all our family members out of the burning house, which included four children and five adults.” She blames her allegedly drug-addicted neighbours for the fire and says after numerous complains to police, they have had enough. “I have raised my voice many times and nothing is done about their activities next door. “These drug addicts don’t have electricity in their dwelling, it must have been a candle or something that they had put up that started this fire,” she claims. The next door neighbour denies this, saying she believes an electrical cable fell on her wendy house and started the fire. Theo Lane, spokesperson of the City of Cape Town’s Fire and Rescue Services, says the cause of the blaze is unknown and police are investigating it. Jacobs says her family could have been dead. “I can’t even talk and my voice has been damaged because of the fire. “We lost everything and have to start over now. To add, my dog burned in the fire. He is dead.” Jacobs says locals have been very generous in showing support for her family. She says City officials and the ward councillor also visited her on Monday. “We are currently living at a relative’s place until our structure is rebuilt. People have come forward to donate much-needed clothing. Because of the wind, the fire spread fast, damaging everything,” she says. V 
  For more information call Nawaal Jacobs on 074 123 3838.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.