Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza. (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Did you miss catching up on the news on Sunday morning? Here is a round up of the best stories from Sunday's City Press newspaper.  Mabuza holds key to ANC presidential race Mpumalanga Premier David Mabuza has put a gun to the heads of the party’s presidential contenders and told them to embrace a unified slate or forget about the province’s kingmaker support base. Now the two frontrunners – Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and former African Union Commission boss Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma – have two weeks to abide by Mabuza’s demands or face losing the bulk of the province’s 736 delegates to the opposing side. - Read the full story   Zuma defies the ANC In a major change of policy, the Kingdom of Morocco is set to send its ambassadors back to South Africa, and the two countries will resume diplomatic ties. These were severed in 2004. In an interview with City Press – which took place at the South African embassy in Abidjan, Ivory Coast and covered continental issues – Zuma said Morocco would send its ambassador back to Pretoria as a first sign that the two countries were resuming diplomatic relations. Zuma’s decision marks a U-turn in a long-standing policy held by the ANC not to recognise Morocco because of its treatment of the Sahrawi people. - Read the full story  Set-top box policy here to stay Recently appointed Communications Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane says her most pressing concern is the slow uptake of state-sponsored set-top boxes (STBs) for the poorest of the poor, ahead of the global June 2019 deadline for migration to digital terrestrial television. South Africa is woefully behind on the process and Kubayi-Ngubane says the deadline is her most pressing concern, not the matter of changing the state’s STB policy. This matter came under the spotlight again after the DA alleged that pay TV broadcaster MultiChoice had, in effect, paid the SABC “kickbacks” to get STB policy changed to unencrypted, simple boxes that will, it is argued, give them a competitive edge against newcomers in the market in the future. - Read the full story  Ramaphosa: Eskom rot is a shame Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has criticised the “rot” in state-owned enterprises like Eskom and vowed to turn them into organisations that will boost the economy. He intended to stop the maladministration and corruption should he be elected ANC president in two weeks’ time, and the country’s president after the 2019 general elections. "Our people hate corruption," he said. "They do not appreciate it when money that should be going towards sending their children to schools, to universities and building them clinics is being hived away to Dubai to go and feed someone’s family." - Read the full story  OPINION: Here's looking at you cadres – Mondli Makhanya Zuma was allowed to poison the ANC, the tripartite alliance, South Africa and our moral centre after Polokwane. Because he was the leader of the liberation movement and followed in the footsteps of titans, he was given carte blanche by his comrades. Even as society screamed loudly that he was behaving in a treasonous manner, the ANC kept closing its eyes and bowing before him. Whoever takes over the ANC in mid-December must not have that luxury. He or she must be reined in by the party and society from the word go. When that individual begins their term of office at the helm of the republic’s largest political party, they must know they are on notice. They must know they are inheriting a party that leads a gatvol South Africa, one that so badly wants to walk tall again. - Read the column here  The reinvention of Mafikizolo On Friday, Mafikizolo released their ninth album to celebrate two decades in the industry. It is a 16-track record titled Mafikizolo 20. Their self-titled debut album came out in 1997. It all started as a dream by three talented youngsters, who rehearsed in a garage. Twenty years later, their music is known across the world. They are now signed with Universal Music SA. For this album they worked with producer DJ Maphorisa, assisted by DJ Ganyani, Gemini Major and Ralf Gum. - Read about it here  For more go to the City Press homepage.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  