Kaveel Singh Police Minister Fikile Mbalula. (File photo: GCIS) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban – The establishment of a new satellite police station for the troubled Glebelands Hostel in Umlazi, south of Durban will put a “squeeze” on criminals, Minister of Police, Fikile Mbalula said. “We must squeeze the space for criminals. We must make it unbearable for them. It is not easy for our people to report crime. We must make it such,” he said to a small gathering of police and community members at Block 52. Mbalula said that the police station would have to be tactically prepared for combating dangerous criminals. “Wherever they are, whatever they do, there is no community in SA which will allow the criminals to terrorise our people.” Glebelands Hostel has been the centre of controversy since 2014. More than 90 murders have taken place there. In September, Mbalula visited the area and promised he would establish a satellite police station to help combat the high crime rate. READ: Still no police station at Glebelands, despite Mbalula's promise “We came, we saw and we are active. This is among the many things we need to do to fight crime. The satellite station is a multiplier that will fight crime. We have this here to ensure interaction with the community.” Women must be protected Mbalula also instructed police to take special care of female victims. “When a woman comes to report gender-based violence we, as police, must take it as genuine. It is the court of law that will make further determinations. The police must respect the community. They must feel welcomed.” Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula arrives at Glebelands Hostel in Umlazi, Durban for the launch of a satellite police station near troubled Block 52. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/3P07plVmFA  He added: “You leave this place as a survivor because the law was on your side. We must create conditions in our centres of service to protect those coming to report criminality.” Police must be supported Mbalula pleaded with the Glebelands community to assist police. “Police cannot work without support and capacity. You are the ones who will help us get this right.” He added that police wanted KZN to especially be safe during the December holidays. “Our task and responsibility is that our people feel safe. You are a beautiful holiday destination and we must keep it that way." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  