Jeanette Chabalala 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     December 9 marks International Anti-corruption Day, which raises awareness on how corruption undermines the social and economic development of a country. Watch.WATCH Johannesburg
– Two City Power contractors were arrested for allegedly attempting to solicit a R2000 bribe from a resident in Auckland Park
in Johannesburg, the City said on Sunday. The officials, who are from an
independent contractor, were arrested on Friday by the Johannesburg
Metropolitan Police Department (JMPD), said Mayor Herman Mashaba in a
statement. The officials provide electricity
disconnection services to City Power.  "It is alleged that the two
officials approached the resident on Friday morning and informed him that his
municipal account was in arrears and that they were there to disconnect
electricity supply to the property," Mashaba said. He said the officials had
indicated that if the resident gave them R2000, the electricity supply would
not be disconnected. They suggested that the resident
should withdraw money at the nearby Campus Square shopping centre. The resident
informed the City's Group Forensic and Investigation Services (GFIS) team which
set up a sting operation together with JMPD, said Mashaba. "When they arrived at Campus
Square one of the officials who escorted the resident to the ATM refused to
take the money at the centre because of CCTV cameras and told the resident to
go back home and they will come and collect it there. "The resident had R500 with
him, which was collected by the two officials from the contractor. JMPD and
GFIS pounced on the two officials as they were driving off from the resident’s
property. WATCH: Bribery and embezzlement are SA's top corruption acts "I am disturbed that this is
becoming a trend in Johannesburg.  We will not hesitate in terminating the
services of contractors who are found to be involved in illegal
activities," Mashaba said. He said the officials did not
have a job card for the property. Mashaba urged resident to report
any fraud and corruption activities through the City's 24-hour tip-off hotline
0800 002 587 or visit the GFIS offices situated at 48 Ameshoff Street in
Braamfontein.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  