James de Villiers  Cape Town – Only a small group of people in a windy Gugulethu - just minutes from Cape Town's CBD - could be seen celebrating the news that Cyril Ramaphosa had been elected the new president of the ANC. Seated in a four-by-six-metre corrugated iron structure, six men crammed themselves in front of a plasma television and clapped their hands after they realised that Ramaphosa - the man they had supported - had clinched the title. They breathed a sigh of relief and soon afterwards, Gcobisa Mabe, 47 ran into the room jumping and shouting: "Viva Ramapahosa, viva!" “I am so sick and tired of always Zuma, Zuma, Zuma. This is not a Zimbabwe. It is a South Africa. We have a right to vote,” Mabe told News24. “As long as it’s not Zuma’s family, I think everything’s going to be fine in South Africa.” She was referring to Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, who lost the race to Ramaphosa by 179 votes. Outside, most residents appeared unfazed by the ANC’s election outcome. Only children could be seen running through the streets as the strong winds in Cape Town forced residents inside their homes. Filmmaker Sakhumzi Mati explained that people don’t care about the ANC’s elections “because we have lost faith” in the party.  "The only time that we were happy [and] we wanted to know about the election, it was [Nelson] Mandela and Thabo [Mbeki]. That is where we felt it so much," Mati said, as he stood in front of an ANC local government election poster.  "And then, after that, I don’t know what happened. There wasn’t excitement about anything ANC.” Micheal Baliso, 63, agreed: "Most people lost hope in our leaders."  "They keep on promising and they don’t deliver on their promises. That’s the reason I think people are not interested anymore." Baliso, however, added that he would continue voting for the ANC, regardless of who its leader was. "The ANC is the organisation I believe can change. It can change our lives," Baliso said.  Meanwhile, at the Cape Town International Airport, restaurants and eateries chose to show sport on their television screens instead of the announcement of the ANC election results. Reggie Chuene, of Johannesburg, said the outcome would "affect a lot of lives".  "We can’t have another Zuma, honestly," Chuene said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  