Tshidi Madia ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe. (Supplied)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The ANC says it does not expect the outcome of the December elective conference to be challenged.  The party had its final national executive committee (NEC) meeting ahead of the conference starting on Sunday, where president Jacob Zuma will be replaced as ANC leader. The run-up to the 54th elective conference has been marred by bruising court challenges, including a legal bid against the leadership in KwaZulu-Natal and interdicts against the Free State elective conference. A new legal challenge - this time against the ANC Mpumalanga Provincial General Council - is looming, with presidential hopeful Mathews Phosa disputing the outcome that saw at least 223 branches nominate "Unity", against party policy that says  a member in good standing must be nominated.  READ:  Mabuza holds key to ANC presidential race Phosa’s Mpumalanga campaign co-ordinator Ronnie Malomane told News24 that they were consulting their legal team to prepare for a court challenge to nullify PGC. "We noted with regret the gross malicious violations of the nominations as per dictates of the nomination guidelines and the ANC constitution. We felt we cannot leave this thing because it has affected almost 223 branches who nominated Unity… violating certain rules," Malomane said.  Mpumalanga Premier and provincial chair David Mabuza was said to have urged the branches to write "Unity" next to the top 6 positions on the nomination forms.  'All I can do is wish him good luck' ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe said Phosa could go to court for instant satisfaction.  "That's all it would serve because a PGC is not an election. A PGC nominates candidates," he said. "It would make for an interesting case if Mathews Phosa is unity," said Mantashe jokingly.He said all PGCs did was to say how many nominations there were in the ballot box."All I can do is wish him good luck," he said. Mantashe said Phosa still had a chance to crack the nominations nod from the conference floor. READ:  Zuma 'a one man dictatorship', says Phosa He also updated journalists on the provinces' state of readiness ahead of the crucial gathering. Mantashe said all branch general meetings which still had to be re-run had been given until the end of this weekend.  "We are dealing with disputes being resolved, to allow branches to go to conference," he told journalists. However he refused to give the numbers of outstanding disputes. Eight out of the nine provinces have completed their PGCs. Gauteng, Limpopo, Eastern Cape, Northern Cape and Western Cape have nominated Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, while Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma got the nod from North West, Free State and Mpumalanga.  READ:  Nomination of Dlamini-Zuma in Free State was a sham - Manyoni KwaZulu-Natal, the biggest province in the ANC, is expected to nominate her when it concludes its PGC on Tuesday. (Additional reporting by Mahlatse Mahlase). 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  