President Jacob Zuma at the ANC elective conference. (Themba Hadebe/AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – As the dams run dry in Cape Town, locals find other means of obtaining water; President Jacob Zuma is advised to step down voluntarily; avoid the drama and tension this Christmas. When will Zuma go? It's a matter of time A delegation from the newly elected ANC leadership will be dispatched to President Jacob Zuma to advise him to step down voluntarily, as pressure mounts on him to immediately give Cyril Ramaphosa space to rebuild the party’s battered image. Read more here ANC fears KZN voters will punish party at 2019 pollsThe KwaZulu-Natal ANC’s failure to secure a spot in the party’s top six has sparked fears that voters in the province will punish the party at the polls in 2019. Read here Arrive alive with patience and daylightThe essential thing to take with you on your travels over the holiday period is patience. As the roads get busier and people look forward to arriving at their destinations, frustration tends to boil over, resulting in accidents. Read more here Less phuza, more play this festive seasonWork is out and so is school, and you are probably tempted to leave your children to their own devices – such as playing on their tablets and watching TV. Read here Newsmaker: The Cyril you don't knowIn high school, Cyril Ramaphosa used to sing, dance and preach, which earned him the chairpersonship of the Students’ Christian Movement. Read more here Suicide watch – the anxious wait for matric results Xoliswa Dube is on tenterhooks ahead of the release of her matric results. Read here Mahlobo’s angry ‘slave’ copsThe police officers guarding Energy Minister David Mahlobo’s uninhabited private house are “gatvol” of the “smelly garage”, “old sofas” and dark toilet they have to use. Read more here Drought crisis? Just turn the air into waterAs Cape Town’s dams run dry, a local entrepreneur has started to sell water that has been produced by turning air into the scare resource. Read here How to enjoy Christmas amid family tensionsDo you grin and bear the tension when you are around family members you don’t get along with at the annual Christmas lunch? Read more here 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  