Caryn Dolley (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - A suspect in a shooting which played out in a Camps Bay café in April, an incident linked to underworld ructions and in which two patrons were wounded, was shot dead in Mitchells Plain last week. Reagan George, 36, was shot in the stomach in Tafelsig last Thursday and later died in hospital.  Two others, including a 12-year-old boy, were also wounded in the shooting. Parts of Mitchells Plain, including Tafelsig, have seen a surge in gang violence over the past few months. It is understood that the shooting of George and the two others may have been linked to jealousy over a games shop. This week, police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andrè Traut said a case of murder and two of attempted murder had been opened. Child, 12, wounded He said the shooting happened in Suurberg Street. While George was wounded in the stomach, a man, 27, was shot in the right upper leg and the 12-year-old was shot in both legs. "Two suspects fled the scene and are yet to be arrested," Traut said. George was one of six suspects arrested in connection with the shooting which unfolded inside Café Caprice on April 17. Two patrons were wounded in the incident. In this matter, two attempted murder cases are under investigation.  After George was shot last Thursday, it was registered as an attempted murder case. After he died, this was changed to a murder case. In an exclusive interview with News24 in September, controversial businessman Nafiz Modack claimed that he was the intended target of the Café Caprice shooting. READ: People want me dead because of my security industry connections – underworld figure Modack "That particular day, we were supposed to have a meeting there. At the last minute, I cancelled," he had said. Last Friday, Modack and six others were arrested in a crackdown on underworld activities. Modack faces an extortion charge. More charges may be added to this. The seven are expected to apply to be released on bail in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court next week. Modack has been heading a group intent on taking over nightclub security from a more established grouping. This takeover has resulted in violence and several shootings. More recently, several arrests targeting those linked to underworld activities have been carried out. For a detailed breakdown on underworld activities in Cape Town visit News24’s showcase: Underworld Unmasked 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  