 Beyoncé. (Getty Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Calls for unity mount ahead of the ANC's highly contested elective conference, Naspers and MultiChoice could be facing a possible class action suit and Springbok coach Allister Coetzee admits he has made mistakes. Scroll through some of our top stories: SA on alert: What you should know about the deadly listeriosis outbreak Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi has announced that more than 30 people have died following an outbreak of listeriosis. Approximately 557 cases have been reported, with the majority occurring in Gauteng province. Read the full story Zikalala, Dlamini-Zuma call for unity as KZN PGC closes Robust calls for unity and tolerance have emerged as senior officials closed KwaZulu-Natal’s ANC provincial general council. More  Naspers, MultiChoice face US class action over SABC, ANN7 dealings Media and tech giant Naspers and its pay-TV arm MultiChoice could be facing a possible class action suit after a US law firm said it was starting a probe on behalf of investors into Naspers. Fin24 has more Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe - 'The President South Africa never had' South Africa and the Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) commemorated what would’ve been the late Robert Sobukwe’s 93rd birthday. The PAC leader was born on this day in 1924. Watch  LGBT community still faces high levels of violence - report A staggering four out of ten LGBT South Africans know of someone who has been murdered "for being or suspected of being" lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender, writes Michael Morris. Read this analysis Selection mistakes happen - Coetzee Springbok coach Allister Coetzee admits he has made mistakes, but not ever on purpose or because he "doesn’t know what is going on". Sport24 has more  This Beyoncé lookalike will give you chills! Brittany Williams says she’s been ‘constantly’ snapped by excited fans and has even been chased down the road by a group of women who were desperate for a selfie. Check out this story on Channel24 'Immaterial' whether I have security clearance - Bongo State Security Minister Bongani Bongo says it is "immaterial" whether he has viewed classified state information without a proper security clearance, a Parliamentary reply has revealed. Paul Herman filed this report  Monthly 'drought charge' on the cards for Capetonians Cape Town residents may have to pay a monthly "drought charge" as officials try and raise R1bn annually while dams in the province recover from the worst dry spell in more than a hundred years. More City of Cape Town decides not to suspend 3 top officials The City of Cape Town has decided not to suspend three officials in a matter relating to maladministration allegations, which sparked a series of claims and counterclaims between some of its most senior employees. Read Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  