Marizka Coetzee PHOTO: Facebook  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The stepmother of the teenage boy who was allegedly kidnapped on Tuesday morning says Jason Kruis (16) didn’t jump, but fell from the vehicle.  “He didn’t jump off of the bakkie,” Lyn Kruis told YOU of her stepson, who died under mysterious circumstances yesterday. The Roodepoort Record reported the teenager and two friends were approached by an unknown man in a bakkie in Florida on Tuesday morning. The boys were allegedly forced onto the bakkie by the man. It’s unclear whether the man was alone. On the N1, close to the Malibongwe off-ramp, the driver is believed to have lost control and the car careered into a ditch. But contrary to earlier reports, Jason did not jump, but fell from the bakkie. He was critically injured during the incident and was declared dead after being rushed to hospital. “He was an awesome child,” Lyn told YOU magazine. “We now also have a better description of the bakkie and the driver who caused the accident,” said Lyn. Lyn describes Jason as a loving child who had “a zest for life”. “Yes he was naughty like any normal teenager, but he always came to apologise afterwards,” Lyn said sadly. She says Jason really loved skateboarding, cycling, music and his friends. Jason had been staying over at a friend’s when the incident took place. “He usually called every night to say that he was safe.” Lyn became very emotional when she thinks about Christmas. “We’d already bought him a Christmas present,” she said, sobbing. She couldn’t speak about it any further. “He was the best teenage boy ever and was busy becoming a real gentleman.” Neither the Florida nor Randburg police stations could confirm if an official post mortem had been carried out yet. “No case has been made with us as yet,” Captain Makgowanyana Maja of the Randburg police station told YOU on Wednesday afternoon. Jason will only be buried after Christmas after an official post mortem has been carried out and the cause of death has been determined.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  