Christina Pitt PHOTO: Supplied 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A nine-year-old boy with deformed lower legs received the gift of hope this festive season, thanks to a family of Good Samaritans. Michael Kgolane from Groblersdal, Limpopo, will soon have prosthetic limbs thanks to a kind Pretoria family, a statement by Netcare Pretoria East Hospital says.  The family’s first encounter with Michael was a heartwarming one. During a trip to Groblersdal the family, who wish to remain anonymous, drove past a group of youngsters pushing the little boy in a wheelbarrow. They pulled over and asked the children where they were taking Michael. The youngsters explained that they were taking the boy to play with his friends as he couldn’t walk by himself. The family were so touched by Michael’s plight that they decided to use money they’d saved for an overseas trip to pay for his medical care and prosthetic limbs. 'Unbelievable kindness' Michael is on his way to greatly improved mobility and quality of life, orthopaedic surgeon Dr Mart-Mari Visser says. “This family’s unbelievable kindness enabled Michael, who’s never been able to walk, to undergo a successful surgery at the end of November to amputate his deformed lower legs and surgically shape the stumps in preparation for being fitted with prosthetic limbs fitted next year,” she says. Michael’s mother, Ditebogo Kglane, says she’ll forever be grateful to the family who enabled her son to get help and to get prosthetic legs.  “The kindness of this family who’ve helped us has been unbelievable,” she says. “My family and I would like to thank these caring people, and everyone who’s been involved in treating him, from the bottom of our hearts.  “Up until now Michael’s had to get around our home on his knees and we’ve had to use a wheelbarrow to get him to school and to see his friends because we haven’t been able to afford a wheelchair,” she added.  “Once his new prosthetic legs have been fitted he’ll be able to walk for the first time.”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  