Heilie Combrinck Foto:  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     It was a tough judging process. Photographs of matric dance dresses have been looked at over and over again. Zoomed-in and re-assessed ... as most entries to this year’s UD Express Miss Matric Dance competition had their own uniqueness and were beautiful. The honour this year goes to Rochelle Schoeman from Uitenhage High School with her elegant red dress made by dressmaker Marlene Abrahams. “I am a big fan of Rihanna and I love her evening dresses. Her dresses were the inspiration for my matric farewell dress. Marlene, the dressmaker, made a few changes to the dress I initially showed her, and it absolutely captured by heart,” said Rochelle, who was accompanied by Doneal Adams to her matric farewell dance during June 2017. “Red is my favourite colour. To me, it symbolizes love.” Her hair was done by Vanessa from Jolene Hairdressers whilst Geraldine Palmer from Colour Fusion Hair & Make-up was responsible for Rochelle’s make-up. Liezel Steenkamp Barrow and Eldridge Simon enjoyed taking photographs of Rochelle in her stunning red dress. In a question if the matric dance was as she dreamt it would be, she answered, “Yes, but I have to admit, I expected more of a Cinderella kind of ball. But it was a great experience. The atmosphere was something to remember forever. It was very joyful.” She said her mother and her friend told her about the Miss Matric Dance competition and insisted that she had to enter. During her free time Rochelle enjoys dancing and singing, and that tells a bit of her free spirit to seize the moment and enjoy life, making memories. “My advice to matriculants looking forward to their matric dance is to make memories which you can treasure forever as this is a once-in-a-lifetime event. Go out and enjoy the evening,” said Rochelle. She plans to further her studies at Varsity College, studying education as she has a passion for children.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  