Jan Bornman Police. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Staff and students are taking strain following the latest round of violent attacks at three Cape Peninsula University of Technology campuses, which saw arsonists set fire to facilities. Watch.WATCH Durban - Police in KwaZulu-Natal are searching for murder suspects in two separate incidents where homes were set alight, leading to the deaths of seven people. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said the first incident occurred in Umlazi D section on Thursday night where a house was set alight with three people inside. "Police officers from Umlazi were conducting operations in the vicinity when they heard gunshots. The police officers immediately responded and spotted a group of men fleeing from the direction of the gunshots," he said. Zwane said the suspects opened fire at the police officers and managed to escape. Police then discovered the house on fire. The three people inside were burnt to death. "Three counts of murder and arson were opened at Umlazi police station. The motive for the attack is still being investigated," Zwane said. The second incident occurred on Tuesday in Mtwalume where a house with four people in it was set alight. "Four counts of murder and arson were opened at Hibberdene police station for investigation and detectives are pursuing positive leads at this stage," he said. Zwane said KwaZulu-Natal acting provincial commissioner Major-General Bheki Langa condemned the brutal killing of three people at Umlazi D section. "It is very disturbing to find people being killed so brutally and we call on the community to stand up and condemn this violent behaviour. Seasoned detectives have been tasked to investigate the murders," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  