James de Villiers  (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg
– A Gauteng abattoir has been prohibited from selling meat after samples taken
from it tested positive for the listeria pathogen, the Gauteng Health
Department said on Saturday.  In a statement, Gauteng Health
MEC Dr Gwen Ramokgopa said the abattoir in the Tshwane area was tested after the food sample of a listeriosis
patient was traced there. "Based on the discovery, the
prohibition notice has been issued to the abattoir in terms of Regulations 4
(3) of Regulations governing the General Hygiene for food premises and the
transport of food for preparing food to the identified abattoir,"
Ramokgopa said. "They're obliged to comply
until the following has been adhered to:
identification of the source of contamination, disinfection of the premises, surface
swabs and water samples have been taken before and after disinfection." Also read: Those displaying symptoms of listeriosis should seek medical help immediately - Motsoaledi In the last year, 365 cases of listeriosis were detected in
Gauteng, resulting in 28 deaths.  Ramokgopa urged individuals with
flu-like systems with diarrhoea, including fever, general body pains, vomiting
and weakness, to urgently seek medical attention.  "We also encourage [people]
to wash their vegetables and fruits before consuming them, boiling  water prior to use if you are not sure of its
origin and to avoid drinking unpasteurized milk, as well as to cook food at
high temperatures." Listeriosis is a serious but
treatable and preventable disease caused by the bacterium Listeria
monocytogenes. It is widely distributed in
nature and can be found in soil, water and vegetation.  Individuals at high risk of
developing severe disease include newborn babies, the elderly, pregnant women,
persons with weak immunity such as those living with HIV, diabetes, cancer,
chronic liver or kidney disease. Also read: SA on alert: What you should know about the deadly listeriosis outbreak   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  