Mxolisi Mngadi  File (NSRI) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – A 17-year-old teenager and a man in his
late 20s have drowned in separate incidents on Sunday afternoon, the National
Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said. 

 The teenager drowned at Strand near Cape Town and
the other victim drowned at Kariga River mouth, Kenton-On-Sea, in the Eastern
Cape. 

 They both drowned shortly after 16:30. 

 "The NSRI Gordons Bay duty crew were activated
by the Transnet National Ports Authority following reports of a male who
disappeared in the surf at Bends on the
Beach, Strand Beach. 

 Strand Surf Lifesaving lifeguards had already
initiated a search for the 17-year-old local male who disappeared under water
from unknown causes shortly after entering the water to swim," said Craig
Lambinon, NSRI spokesperson.  Lambinon said during an air, sea and shoreline
search, which included the Skymed rescue helicopter, the NSRI sea
rescue craft, a Law Enforcement Marine Unit jet-ski and rescue swimmers and
lifeguards conducting sweeping line free dive search efforts in the water, the
body of the teenager was located and recovered from the water and brought to
the shoreline where paramedics conducted extensive Cardio Pulmonary
Resuscitation (CPR) efforts. "But sadly after all efforts to resuscitate
the teenager were exhausted he has been declared deceased by paramedics,"
he said. "Police have opened an inquest,"
he said. He said trauma counsellors were attending to the
family of the boy. Lambinon said the man from Port Alfred disappeared
under water while swimming across the river mouth with a friend. "On arrival on the scene NSRI Port Alfred
rescue swimmers joined lifeguards and a sweeping line free dive search was
conducted. During the search efforts, the body of the man was located under
water and recovered and sadly the man has been declared deceased," he
said. The police have opened an inquest, he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  