Mxolisi Mngadi, James de Villiers and Paul Herman President Jacob Zuma. (Pic: Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – The Democratic Alliance has not received confirmation from the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) or its head, Shaun Abrahams, if President Jacob Zuma provided it with reasons to say why he should not be prosecuted for corruption. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said the party's lawyers wrote to Abrahams on Friday to compel him to provide written confirmation that he did, in fact, receive fresh representations from Zuma in relation to the 783 counts of corruption, fraud, money-laundering and racketeering. He had said this must be done by no later than 16:00 on Friday.  At about 17:15, Maimane's spokesperson Portia Adams told News24 that the party hadn't received any communication from Abrahams and his office. Zuma's spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga couldn't be reached for comment. NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku was also not available for comment on Friday. READ: Zuma expected to make new representations on corruption charges  The NPA gave the president until Thursday, November 30, to make representations as to why they should not charge him with corruption. The request followed a Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) dismissal of an application by Zuma and the NPA to appeal a High Court ruling, which declared that the 2009 decision to drop 18 corruption charges against him was irrational. Maimane said, if Abrahams did receive fresh representations from Zuma, then it should be shared with all interested parties by the Friday deadline in order for those interested parties to be given an opportunity to comment on such representations. "Alternatively, if no fresh representations have been made by the president, Advocate Abrahams must advise on what steps have been taken to call President Zuma to his first court appearance. President Zuma remains charged, and those charges must be faced in a court of law as soon as possible," he said in a statement. He said their view was that, if Zuma had raised any new representations of substance, a court of law must make a determination as to whether those justify stopping the prosecution or not.  "This will guarantee a fair and open consideration of any new representations, and will shield the matter from any undue political interference." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  