First 10 days in office have been 'hectic', says Zim’s new leader Mnangagwa Harare – Zimbabwe's new president Emmerson Mnangagwa has reportedly described his first 10 days in office as "hectic", but remained optimistic that his new team of ministers will turn around the economy of the country. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Mnangagwa said this during a brief interview following the swearing in of 21 Cabinet ministers at the state house in Harare on Monday. "It has been hectic, but I believe that with my team we will stand up to the challenge," Mnangagwa was quoted as saying. Read more on this story here Zim army chief Chiwenga 'could be tipped for VP post' – reports Harare – Zimbabwe's army chief Constantino Chiwenga is reportedly earmarked for one of the country's two deputy president posts, a reports say.  According to Daily News, the army chief was likely going to be elevated to the vice presidency seat during the forthcoming Zanu-PF congress this month. Chiwenga was widely believed to have orchestrated the military take over last month, which resulted in former president Robert Mugaberesigning after 37 years in power.  For more on this story click here Grace Mugabe 'a mad woman with no brains was in charge of
Zim', says war vets boss Harare – Zimbabwe's war veterans leader Chris Mutsvangwa has
reportedly said that the millitary's intervention, which resulted in former
president Robert
Mugabe relinquishing power two weeks ago was a "counter
coup" to former first lady Grace Mugabe's
"bedroom coup".  According to a New Zimbabwe.com report, Mutsvangwa maintained that
there was no coup in the southern African country.  "There was no coup. There was a counter-coup... The
coup was carried out by Grace when her senior husband was losing his faculties
and sleeping all the time," Mutsvangwa was quoted as saying. For more on this story click here  WATCH: Mugabe ally's mansion with '50 bedrooms' guarded
by armed soldiers Harare – A video of a mansion belonging to Zimbabwean former
president Robert
Mugabe's ally Saviour
Kasukuwere, who was the minister for local government in his
administration, has emerged on social media. In the video, the mansion, which is described by one social
media as a "monster" is seen being guarded by soldiers, who are
milling about and remarking with bemusement at the possible cost of the
property. For more on this story click here  Nigerian state gets 'happiness minister' Lagos - It has been ranked among the happiest places in the
world despite widespread unrest, political crisis and recession. Now one
Nigerian state has a minister in charge of contentment. The commissioner for happiness and couples' fulfilment is
the brainchild of Rochas Okorocha, governor of the southeastern state of Imo. Okorocha, who was previously widely criticised for using
public funds to erect statues of prominent African leaders, on Monday appointed
his sister to the post. Read more on this story here  Sierra Leone opposition 'satisfied' with police chief
sacking Freetown - Sierra Leone's opposition on Monday said it
welcomed the replacement of the country's police chief following his sacking
amid accusations of institutional political bias and endemic corruption. Former Inspector General of Police Francis Munu was
reassigned to an ambassadorial post in neighbouring Liberia after being removed
from duty last week, and replaced with Richard Moigbe, his deputy. The decision by President Ernest Bai Koroma -- who has not
commented on the matter -- came after pressure by the opposition Sierra Leone
People's Party (SLPP) over the arrest of their party spokesman Lahai Lawrence
Leema and the detention of several more supporters. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  