Mxolisi Mngadi Khehla Sitole. Picture: Deaan Vivier 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria – Newly-appointed national police commissioner General Khehla Sitole appointed two deputy commissioners "with immediate effect" on Friday. Sitole appointed Lieutenant General Lebeoana Jacob Tsumane as the deputy national commissioner of crime detection. Tsumane will be responsible for the division's detective services, forensic services and crime intelligence. He has a national diploma in police management and has successfully completed several management and leadership programmes. He joined the police on November 17, 1981 and, after he completed his basic training in 1982, he performed duties in the community service centre of the Brakpan police station in Gauteng. Major General Francinah Ntombenhle Vuma was appointed as the deputy national commissioner of management advisory services. She was also promoted to the rank of Lieutenant General. Vuma, who will report directly to Sitole, will be responsible for organisational development, strategic management, programme and project management, and corporate communication and liaison.  She has a Bachelor of Policing Practice Honours degree and is busy studying towards a master’s degree in policing.  She has also successfully completed several management and leadership programmes. Vuma started her career as a student constable, performing duties in the community service centre in KwaMhlanga police station in 1987. During his recent appointment as the national commissioner Sitole promised that the filling of vacant senior management positions would be prioritised.  He said he was confident that the appointment of the two seasoned senior managers, "both experienced and skilled in their areas of expertise", would bring stability and leadership to the fight against crime and within the organisation. "Lieutenant Generals Tsumane and Vuma are to be congratulated on their well-deserved appointments. I have no doubt that they will contribute significantly in our efforts to achieve the vision of turning the creation of a safe and secure environment into a crime-free conducive climate for socio-economic stability in support of a better life for all," said Sitole. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  