Caryn Dolley and Alex Mitchley Controversial businessman Nafiz Modack. (Caryn Dolley, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria - After having spent Christmas behind bars, controversial businessman Nafiz Modack and six others linked to the underworld and nightclub security takeover, are t proceed with their bail application on Wednesday.  Underworld violence started surging in Cape Town late in 2016 when a new grouping of men, allegedly headed by Modack, started taking control of nightclub security from a more established grouping. The takeover sparked violence and several shootings. It also resulted in several recent arrests. Modack as well as  Colin Booysen - who is the brother of suspected Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen - Jacques Cronje, James de Jager, Ashley Fields, Mathys Visser and Carl Lakay who were arrested earlier in December are facing extortion charges.  READ: Cops' alleged involvement in underworld activities questioned in court  News24 also previously reported that the seven arrests form part of a much broader investigation into underworld activities, including a murder plot. Modack and his six co-accused appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on December 18 under the watchful eye of a heavy police presence.  For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld, see News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked Ahead of the appearances, journalists sitting at the front of the courtroom were also told to move to the public gallery. A man, linked to the police, used his cellphone to take photographs of some of those in the public gallery, including relatives of the suspects. Among the police officers present in court was Major-General Jeremy Vearey, the head of the Cape Town police cluster. Modack appeared in the dock alongside Booysen, Fields, Cronje and Lackay on an extortion charge. The court heard that the State opposed thheir release on bail because it was believed it would put witnesses and residents at risk. More charges were expected to be added against the accused. Modack's bail application is expected to get under way on Wednesday.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  