Nation Nyoka 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Bloemfontein – The SACP in the Free State has welcomed the announcement of the new leadership of the Metsimaholo municipality in Sasolburg, calling it a historic first for the party. The party's Lindiwe Tshongwe was elected as executive mayor at a council sitting on Thursday, along with the ANC's Thabo Mabasa, who was elected speaker, and Metsimaholo Community Association's (MCA) Victor Nyembe, who was elected as council whip. This is the SACP's first time governing a municipality after it formed a coalition government with alliance partners the ANC, as well as three smaller parties.  "The SACP is pleased that following rigorous consensus seeking consultation and discussions, there was convergence, in the best interest of the working class and community, to build a stable and functional municipality," read a statement. READ: SACP governs its first municipality The Metsimaholo municipal by-elections – which took place in November – were marred by allegations of vote rigging, with voters closing some voting stations to show their dissatisfaction. The by-elections took place following the dissolution of the local coalition council in July after it failed to fulfil its constitutional mandate of approving a 2017/2018 budget. The situation was further exacerbated by the sudden crossover of coalition-backed mayor Sello Hlasa, of the MCA, to the ANC. The dissolution saw former alliance partners the SACP and the ruling ANC pitted against each other, but agreeing to work together. The Free State SACP said it hopes that the new municipal leadership will strengthen ties with the community and serve the people selflessly and wholeheartedly. "We call on the new leadership of the municipality to build a responsive, efficient and accountable municipality. We equally call on our communities to be active participants and contributors in building a Metsimaholo we want," read a statement.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  