Jan Gerber Khehla Sitole. (Deaan Vivier) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – The "untouchable" police officer, who allegedly falsified security clearance certificates and has a payment of R50 000 from the State Security Agency in her bank account, is still in her job. Furthermore, the police neglected to write to the Inspector-General of Intelligence (IGI) to ask that the officer concerned, Brigadier Leonora Bamuza-Phetlhe, be investigated. At his first appearance before the Portfolio Committee on Police as national commissioner on Friday, General Khehla Sitole confirmed that Bamuza-Phetlhe was "still in employment and working". "I need to be very honest about it, I cannot lie to the committee," Sitole said. He said, since his appointment last week, he had had very little time to deal with the matter. "If the portfolio committee says go and suspend, we must do it through the regulatory framework," he said. At the committee's sitting on November 15, members were disturbed when it came to light that the police intended to send Bamuza-Phetlhe on a working visit to France. Sitole, however, confirmed that she hadn't been sent on this trip. Bamuza-Phetlhe is accused of fabricating security clearance for the former acting head of crime intelligence, Major General Pat Mokushane, who was removed from the post in August. READ: Officer investigated for fraud was nominated for trip to France She is also being investigated for a suspicious payment of R50 000 into her bank account, which Sitole on Friday described as "Secret Service money". "We did not write immediately to the inspector-general to commence the investigation," Sitole said. 'She is untouchable' He said he had instructed the head of crime intelligence, Major General King Ngcobo, to write to the IGI. ANC MP Phindile Mmola said: "This news is disturbing. Who was supposed to write the letter? She is untouchable." There is also a criminal investigation into Bamuza-Phetlhe. At a meeting in August, then acting national police commissioner Lesetja Mothiba said that Lieutenant General Jimmy Ledwaba, provincial police commissioner of Limpopo, has been appointed to investigate the allegations against Mokushane and Bamuza-Phetlhe. On Friday, Sitole said Ledwaba's investigation was close to being finalised. Ngcobo then said that another police officer was handling that investigation, much to the consternation of MPs. Sitole later said that Ngcobo would take charge of the investigation and that they would report back to the committee in next year. EFF MP Phillip Mhlongo said it was clear to him that the SSA wanted someone in crime intelligence. Committee chairperson Francois Beukman said crime intelligence had been a "very difficult space" over the past six years, and that it needed urgent attention.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  