Robert Mugabe. (File: AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Former Zimbabwean
president Robert Mugabe, who also used to be the leader of Zanu-PF is set to miss
the ruling party's congress for the first time since the party's founding in
1963, a report says. Zanu-PF
party was gearing up for its extraordinary congress that was set to take place
on Friday in Harare. According
to News Day, in a landmark moment for Zanu-PF, "new party leader Emmerson
Mnangagwa, who took power following chaotic but peaceful scenes that engulfed
the country following the November 14 military intervention, would preside over
the ruling party’s extraordinary congress". The
report quoted the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans' Association
spokesperson and Zanu-PF Harare provincial commissar, Douglas Mahiya as saying
that Mugabe was no longer a member of the ruling party. "He (Mugabe) had lost the plot. He had lost the way and was walking out
of step with our ideals. Mugabe's position as both a member of the party and
leader had become untenable, hence, we did not expect that the leadership would
invite him, let alone allow him to attend," Mahiya reportedly said. Ruinous divisions The congress would see Mnangagwa being
endorsed as the party leader by the country's 10 provinces. The
state-owned Herald newspaper, reported earlier this week that the aim
of the congress would be to "endorse changes that came up as a result of
Operation Restore Legacy that helped stop ruinous divisions in the
revolutionary party".  Mugabe, who resigned from his position as president of Zimbabwe in
on November 21, reportedly flew out of the country to the Far East on Monday
for medical checks in Singapore. This was his first trip since his ouster. The nonagenarian was expected to make a stop-over in Malaysia,
where his first daughter, Bona, was expecting a second child.  Mugabe had been due to travel to Singapore on November 16 but was
unable to leave because the military had confined him to his private home the
previous day, reports quoted a government official  as saying.  Mugabe
was initially elected Zanu secretary-general when the party was formed in 1963
following the split in the then Zapu before he took over as leader in 1977,
News Day said.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  