Mbongiseni Maseko Zanda Zakuza is going to release a full album in February.PHOTO: Supplied. 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Zanda Zakuza may have caught many by surprise when she announced herself in the music industry with a bang in 2016, but is now flying even higher with her new singles. She has released a single titled Hamba which features Bongo Beats. The song features prominently on Metro FM countrywide. It has been in top 10 radio charts since it was released in April this year and has only moved to the top 20 recently. Zanda made a grand entrance last year after she was featured by DJj Mdix in a track titled “Umvulo” last year. “That song was my break-through in music. I co-wrote the song with him over the phone ... I wrote the chorus in the car as we were driving to a recording studio. My success in music came so fast and it was like a calling. I get involved in my own music as it is my craft,” she said. She is also featured in Prince Kaybee’s song titled Yonk’into which is also a killer track, including DJ France Deep’s Sabela. Zanda, a songwriter, dancer and motivational speaker, is due to release her debut album in February. The album is recorded under her newly launched record label, Open Mic Productions which she co-owns with Lionel Jamela and Molau Rammala.  “The album is about love. I dedicate it to my mother, Cynthia. She gave me the best love ever. She did not approve of me making a career in music until she heard my song on Radio. I am very lucky. I cannot even explain it,” she added. The album features Donald, DJ Mix, Bongo Beats and Doc Shebeleza. Zanda grew up in Umlazi, in Durban. “I grew-up with my cousins who were all boys. I was tomboyish.  I wore high hills for the first time when I had to perform a Whitney Houston song called “The Greatest Love of All” at Pinetown Girls’ High School.  Everyone cried when I sang that song and that is where my teachers encouraged me to pursue my talent.  I was a problem child at school who was not involved in anything to do with music. I only wanted to be a dancer until I performed on the day,” she added. She is hoping to come perform in the city soon. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  