Patson Dzamara  Robert Mugabe (File: AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Saturday the 18th of November 2017 shall forever be remembered as the day which
inscribed an indelible feature in the history of Zimbabwe. On that day, an
entire nation conspired to run away from Satan in order to seek refuge in and
surrender its soul to Lucifer. After enduring 37 years under the morbid rule of Robert Mugabe, Zimbabweans
from all walks of life converged, demanding Mugabe step down as their president.
It was surreal and unprecedented. For the first time since the attainment of
independence, Zimbabweans were able to freely express themselves in unison. A coincidence of agendas The path towards this momentous Saturday was littered with curious
landmarks which most people overlooked while raptured in euphoria. Anyone who
dared to highlight the landmarks was labelled an anti progress agent. I was not
spared that label because between Satan and Lucifer, I chose none. The nation
was ready to cross over. Nothing else mattered and nothing was allowed to stand
in its way. What most people failed to pick was the fact that actions which culminated
in the historic happenings of that Saturday were not emanating from
the same premise. There were two agendas at play and one agenda used the other
as a means to an end. As far as the national sentiment or agenda was concerned, Mugabe in all his
forms had to go. Sly power mongers in the form of defence forces generals,
Mnangagwa and his crew saw that as an opportunity to augment their political
and factional agenda. They steered the nation towards a precarious and fallacious
conclusion that once Mugabe the person was removed then a new Zimbabwe would
have been birthed. Gullible and desperate for change, Zimbabweans believed and rallied behind
these power hungry desperados and their warped narrative. Consumed with a burning
desire for a new Zimbabwe and paying less attention to what was really
happening, Zimbabweans essentially joined their voice to that of this power
intoxicated bunch in a spirited fight to remove Mugabe. Erroneously and naïvely, Zimbabweans thought that whatever was happening was
being done for them. Very few actually perceived that they were aiding a power
manoeuvre which had nothing or little to do with them.   Most had
concluded that the moment they patiently waited for was finally delivered to
them on a silver platter. Surprisingly and regrettably, not many questioned why all of a sudden the
chief cornerstones which had sustained Mugabe's grip on power had suddenly
turned against him and inclined towards them. Not only that, not many
deciphered the critical difference between the people's agenda and the defence
forces agenda. The people's agenda was motivated by a desire to gain freedom
from dictatorship while the defence forces agenda was motivated by a desire to
gain power for themselves and their friends. But again, all that didn't matter to many for as long as Mugabe was removed.
In fact, anyone who dared to pose such pertinent questions was told that we had
to take one step at a time and that Rome was not built in a day. The rise of false hope and illusions On Tuesday the 21st of November, Mugabe eventually gave in to the pressure
and he resigned. His resignation was welcomed with massive celebrations across
the country. This was the moment most Zimbabweans had fervently yearned and
waited for.  When the news broke, I was driving past the parliament building and the
commotion caught my attention. There were many people who were waiting for the
impeachment outcome in Itai Dzamara Square (Africa Unity Square). I too joined
the wild celebrations but sadly, a few minutes into the celebrations I broke
down and wept like a baby when I remembered my brother Itai. I retreated and
spent that entire night in bed while almost everyone was celebrating the fall
of Mugabe. I can safely conclude that this development led to the rise of hope among
illusions in most Zimbabweans' minds. If it is anything worth to be classified
under hope then it was false hope. To many, that was it. A new Zimbabwe had
been delivered to them through the 'help' of the defence forces. The most painful experience I endured in all this was being told happy new
Zimbabwe by my fellow country men. I even attended prayer sessions where some
excitable pastors told people to praise God for a new Zimbabwe. Something in me
kept on impressing that it was not yet a new Zimbabwe and I  always made
it a point to register that whenever I had an opportunity to do so privately or
publicly. Several of my friends and relatives in the diaspora asked me whether I
thought it was the right time for them to return home and my answer was always
an emphatic no. I was adamant that removing Mugabe the person did not mean an
automatic death of Mugabe the system. It was just a moment of false hope and
illusions. The emergence of pseudo heroes While the bizarre happenings unfolded, an extremely flagrant precedence was
set. Some very strange pseudo heroes emerged. The defence forces generals,
soldiers, war veterans and Emmmerson Mnangagwa emerged as heroes. In fact,
Chiwenga earned himself a sexy nickname in the process. Some started calling
him General bae. Well, if my girlfriend had called him that or if she had posed for a selfie
with soldiers, that was going to mark the end of our relationship. For successfully wrestling power in an unorthodox and unconstitutional
manner from Mugabe, these individuals became heroes. For as long as they
removed Mugabe, nobody seemed to care about any other aspect. To many they
were/are heroes who brought freedom but I persistently repeated that Zimbabwe
had been called upon to make an impossible choice between Satan and Lucifer. I am still wondering how posing for photos with soldiers or in front of
tankers was decoded as a sign of freedom by my fellow country men. The irony is
shocking and disturbing. The excitement of the moment blinkered most from what
was really happening. I shudder to conclude that very few of my country men really knew what had
hit us at that point. That was the beginning of an undesirable journey towards
a military state, of course with the aid of a meticulously positioned
soundtrack from some camp called the military touch movement. That gifted voice
also rode on the tide and yes most concluded he is the man of the moment.  The epic entrance and branding of Lucifer After Mugabe's resignation, Zanu-PF quickly installed Mnangagwa as its new
leader. It was a quick transition from Satan to Lucifer or from fire to fire.
Mnangagwa returned from self imposed exile to an anticipating nation. On the
25th of November he was inaugurated as the new president of Zimbabwe at the
National Sports Stadium. Mnangagwa's inaugural speech was prolific. He told Zimbabweans what he knew
they wanted to hear and that did the job. That speech caused most fence sitters
to incline towards him. Even his critics gave him a thumbs up for that speech.
It was an epic entrance. As soon as Mnangagwa's presidency began, a massive branding exercise was set
in motion. He seems to have invested in agenda setting gate keepers especially
on social media. They have been working overtime to brand him, including
creating falsehoods and it’s working as evidenced by the number of people
getting hooked and hoodwinked. Lucifer is being projected as God - a man of principle, discipline, and
action notwithstanding his compromised past and present. Anyone who dares to
speak anything against him is trolled and many have succumbed. Recent political
developments around the world reveal that social media has revolutionised the
political terrain. It must never be underestimated. Indeed, if not careful
people will end up thinking that Lucifer is God.  The glorious fall of Lucifer After all the cosmetics and the romance of new found artificial love, our
own Lucifer, Mnangagwa was flying high. He had been presented as a Messiah and
even those who were initially indifferent were now willing to give him a
chance. Just like the Lucifer in the Bible, we knew it was a matter of time before
his glorious fall. Fortunately, for some of us who have been projecting that
curve much to the dismay of most of our country men, vindication came early.
Last week Mnangagwa announced his cabinet. Everyone was looking forward to see
what the cabinet would look like. Despite the optimism and vote of confidence Mnangagwa had received from
Zimbabweans, he chose to erode that with his first major act as president. He
appointed a very weird cabinet made up of the same old, clueless and tired
faces who helped Mugabe to run Zimbabwe down.  He did that despite the
fact that Zimbabweans' hunger for change had forced them to give him the
benefit of the doubt even though he really doesn't deserve it. Unthinkable and overambitious as it may have been, most Zimbabweans were
prepared to make it work and give their nation a chance to move forward. By
appointing an uninspiring cabinet of failures and thieves, Mnangagwa has
quickly climbed down from the artificially inflated Messiah pedestal to the
Lucifer pedestal where he belongs. Mnangagwa's cabinet has only two women and no single youth. Perhaps he
appointed this cabinet due to the limited timeframe available before the 2018
elections. The timeframe narrative is valid but that still doesn't undo the
damage done by this move. It will take a lot more for Mnangagwa to undo the
damage done by this move and return to anything approaching his earlier
popularity. Going forward, it is too early to write Mnangagwa off. This own goal he
scored has just trimmed him back to his actual size. He has a lot to prove and
he has an election to win in 2018. He will do anything maybe including killing
to retain power. The opposition has been serendipitously given a new lease of life and it
must be utilized to the fullest. More work has to be done. Aluta continua. A
new and better Zimbabwe is possible in our lifetime. Patson Dzamara is a leadership coach, author and analyst based in Harare. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  