Tammy Petersen ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The North Gauteng High Court has ruled that President Jacob Zuma must fulfil the remedial actions of the Public Protector as described in the State of Capture report. News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson weighs in. Watch.  WATCH Cape Town - The ANC said a judicial commission of inquiry was the only recourse in verifying the "very serious allegations of state capture which threaten the integrity of our democratically-elected government". The ruling party's statement followed a finding by the North Gauteng High Court on Wednesday that former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela's recommended remedial actions were wise, necessary, rational and appropriate. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said the party "welcomes" the judgment in relation to the remedial action, specifically relating to the appointment of the judicial commission of inquiry.  READ: State Capture: Madonsela 'happy' with court ruling on Zuma "This judgment brings us a step closer to the implementation of the ANC national executive committee resolution, which directed that the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture be established without delay," he said in a statement. "The judicial commission of inquiry will provide everybody with an opportunity to tell their side of the story. We, therefore, trust President Jacob Zuma will act in accordance with this judgment without delay in the interest of our country." In Wednesday’s landmark and scathing judgment, a full Bench of the court, led by Judge President Dunstan Mlambo, dismissed Zuma's application against Madonsela's report, finding that he must institute a commission of inquiry into state capture within 30 days. This would be headed by a judge appointed by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, as per the "binding" remedial actions put forward by Madonsela. In the judgment, Zuma was held personally liable for the costs of his legal challenge, as well as his aborted application to halt the report from being released. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  