Nation Nyoka Johannesburg – As the 54th elective conference of the ruling party came to a close in the early hours of Thursday morning, politicians took to social media to express their views on what transpired throughout the six-day conference. For the most part, the tweets around the conference were speculative but more on the optimistic side. In the run-up to the presidential election, politicians expressed that they wanted a leader with integrity who would unite and rebuild the ANC, restoring confidence from its members. #ANC54 ICYMI: Ramaphosa takes jabs at Zuma, cheers for land reform, and friends and foes in the ANC NEC After the top 6 announcement, politicians took to social media to welcome the new president of the ruling party, Cyril Ramaphosa, who replaced Jacob Zuma after he was at the helm of the party for two terms.  ANC's parliamentary chief whip, Jackson Mthembu, took a strong view on anti-corruption and state capture saying that he hopes that this new leadership will help root it out and restore integrity in the party. The ANC Women's League came under fire from many users for their flip flop response to endorsing women in leadership and only campaigning for Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma instead of campaigning for all the female candidates. An 80-member national executive committee (NEC) was also announced, leading to questions about those included in Cyril Ramaphosa's new dream team with strong links to the notorious Gupta family, as well as other stains on their public image. South African Federation Trade Union's Zwelinzima Vavi reacted to South Africa Communist Party's Blade Nzimande being snubbed a position on the NEC. Nzimande had been very vocal about Zuma stepping down in the run up to the conference. He was hospitalised for alleged food poisoning. Among some of the resolutions made was to amend the Constitution so as to introduce land expropriation without compensation, the decriminalisation of sex work, and the nationalisation of the South African Reserve Bank. Resolutions which were met with pessimism. According to Ramaphosa's Twitter account, this was a successful conference.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  