Mugabe son 'ventures into selling exclusive clothing at exorbitant prices' - reports Harare - Former president Robert Mugabe's son, Robert Mugabe Jr, has launched his own clothing label, "which he hopes will be competitive on the international scene", reports say.  According to Daily News, the label, called xGx, was launched in Johannesburg just weeks after the nonagenarian's fall from power. See picture below  The apparels are a bit on the steep side, with men's T-shirts going for $300 and ladies' tops going for $250, the report said. New Zimbabwe.com said that Robert Jr and his brother Chatunga Bellarmine had "shown off luxury clothing they were selling themselves". Read more on this story here  Mugabe-era finance minister out on bail in Zimbabwe Harare - A Zimbabwean court on Thursday freed a Mugabe-era finance minister on bail ahead of his trial on corruption charges, laid following his arrest at the height of last month's military takeover. Ignatius Chombo, a close ally of former president Robert Mugabe who resigned on November 21, was the first Mugabe loyalist to be charged with a crime. The Zimbabwe High Court freed him on $5 000-bail but ordered he report to police three times a day, surrender his passport and stay away from government offices and the central bank. He had been in police custody for more than a fortnight. Read more on this story here  Evicted white Zim farmer to get land back, as Mnangagwa govt reverses decision Rusape – A white commercial farmer, who was evicted from his farm in Manicaland province in Zimbabwe, is reportedly set to return back and resume production after the decision "was reversed by President Emmerson Mnangagwa's new administration". Heavily armed Zimbabwean riot police besieged Robert Smart’s farm outside Rusape town in June and forcefully evicted him from his farm.   The tobacco and maize grower was evicted to reportedly pave way for a top cleric, Trevor Manhanga, who had links with then president Robert Mugabe. For more on this story click here  WATCH: Zim army boss summoned by 'sharp-eyed' new president Mnangagwa over spelling error Harare - Zimbabweans have been expressing bemusement, and praise, over their new president’s sharp-eyed response to a spelling mistake on a plaque he had just unveiled. The plaque was uncovered on Wednesday at a ceremony to rename an army barracks in central Harare after Josiah Magama Tongogara, a hero of Zimbabwe’s independence war. In a video of the incident shared widely on social media, President Emmerson Mnangagwa draws aside the curtains to reveal the new plaque, as Tongogara’s widow, Angeline, stands beside him. He reads through the brief information until he gets to the spelling mistake – Zimbabwe misspelt as "Zimbawe". Immediately, Mnangagwa turns around and summons the army chief of staff, Douglas Nyikayaramba by his first name. For more on this story click here Zimbabwe proposes budget aimed at reviving bleak economy Harare - Zimbabwe's new government plans to reduce diplomatic missions and ban first-class travel for everyone but the president as it tries to revive a devastated economy after longtime leader Robert Mugabe resigned last month. Finance Minister Patrick Chinamasa on Thursday presented the first national budget proposal since President Emmerson Mnangagwa was sworn in after the military's intervention, saying it is aimed at "getting the economy speedily back on track." Zimbabweans and others are watching closely to see whether Mnangagwa, a longtime Mugabe ally whose firing as vice president last month led the military and ruling party to turn against the president, will be able to step out of his mentor's shadow. For more on this story click here  Mnangagwa 'has betrayed thousands of Zimbabweans', opposition claims Harare – Zimbabwe's opposition, the People's Democratic Party (PDP) party, has reportedly accused President Emmerson Mnangagwa of "betraying the hopes of Zimbabweans" of people following the recent decision by his government to "unleash soldiers on vendors and commuter operators in Harare". News Day reported this week that street vendors in Harare and Mutare cried foul on Monday after they were forcibly driven off their illegal vending sites in the city during a combined cleansing operation involving the military, municipal and members of the Zimbabwe Republic Police.  Unregistered taxi operators were also not spared in the exercise code-named "Operation Restore Sanity", which was simultaneously rolled out in all major cities and towns, the report said.  For more on this story click here  HRW denounces attacks on Sufi shrines in Libya Tripoli - Human Rights Watch on Thursday denounced a series of attacks against shrines of the mystical Sufi branch of Sunni Islam in Libya by "extremist" militias. "Sufi religious sites are under assault in Libya," the New York-based rights watchdog said after two attacks in the capital Tripoli over the past two months. It said unidentified assailants torched the Zawiyat Sheikha Radiya, a historic Sufi mosque in Tripoli, heavily damaging it on November 28, on the eve of a feast marking the birthday of Prophet Mohammed. Read more on this story here  UN condemns 'heinous' sale of migrants in Libya as slaves New York - The UN Security Council is condemning the sale of African migrants into slavery in Libya as "heinous abuses of human rights" that may constitute crimes against humanity. A presidential statement read at an open council meeting on Thursday called for speedy investigation of the reported sales in order to bring the perpetrators to justice. The statement follows an emergency meeting of the council on November 28 called by France in response to CNN's release of video footage showing African men being sold at a slave market in Libya. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  