Correspondent  Robert Mugabe (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - War veterans in Zimbabwe say they plotted to oust Robert
Mugabe as leader just weeks ahead of a military operation that pushed the
93-year-old out of office. Officials from veteran associations of both independence war
armies, the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army and the Zimbabwe People’s
Revolutionary Army, told the private NewsDay they had planned to march on State
House in November to force Mugabe to step down. Blind loyalty But the army intervened before the war veterans could on
November 15, forcing Mugabe to resign so that recently-sacked vice president
Emmerson Mnangagwa could take his place. "Mnangagwa was never aware of what we were doing. He
remained loyal to Mugabe to the extent that we had problems with his blind loyalty
that never got a return favour from Mugabe," Christopher Mutsvangwa, chairperson of the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association (ZNLWVA) told
NewsDay. But there are no hard feelings: Mutsvangwa is now a special
adviser to the new president. Mutsvangwa said Mnangagwa’s eyes were "opened" when Grace
Mugabe - who was championing a rival faction of Zanu-PF - was booed at a
rally in the second city of Bulawayo on November 4. A watershed moment Said the war vets' chief: "The booing in Bulawayo was a
watershed moment we organised and celebrated. It exposed Mugabe for who he was
and opened Mnangagwa’s eyes to what was going on." Another war veteran official, Victor Matemadanda told the
paper that before the takeover, the veterans had even been preparing to take
legal action to wrest the name 'Zanu-PF' from Mugabe who was determined to
stand as the ruling party's only candidate in elections in 2018. "We were preparing even for a legal battle to get the name
of the party and go into elections with a different candidate than him," he
said. "In the end, the plan was to make sure the party is in the right hands." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  