Lizeka Tandwa  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Voting at the ANC national conference only started at around midnight on Sunday, the party confirmed.  This came shortly after an announcement was made that the voting process was postponed to Monday morning. Voting was scheduled to begin in the afternoon on Sunday with the announcement of the new top six leadership in the early hours on Monday.However, the conference started late on Saturday afternoon after a special NEC meeting was convened following the last minute court ruling which ordered that PEC' s in KwaZulu-Natal as well as the Free State could not vote. ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte announced on the same day that 35 branches in the North West were disqualified following a court ruling found against the Bojanalo regional conference.  Ramaphosa vs Dlamini-Zuma The race for the top job is between former AU commission chair Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa.  Both candidates have run a tight race for the position, campaigning in every corner of the country.  Also read: IDs and registers - How the ANC delegates will vote for the top 6 Ramaphosa who founded South Africa's biggest union the National Union of Mineworkers, is favoured by business as well as Cosatu. The trade union federation pronounced on Ramaphosa as it's candidate earlier in the year adding that it believed that he would further the interest of workers as well as aiding in the configuration of the alliance.  During nominations, Ramaphosa had a firm lead against his opponent Dlamini-Zuma with 1469 branch nominations over her 1094.  If chosen to lead the ANC, Dlamini-Zuma will make history as the first female president of the organisation and possibly the country in 2019. She first made her mark as the first female African Union Commission chair when she took over the position in 2012.  She has been lauded for her work as the Ministers of Health and Home Affairs during former President Thabo Mbeki's terms.  Also read: Ramaphosa and NDZ go head to head  Lindiwe Sisulu and David Mabuza are the two candidates for the position of deputy president.  Gwede Mantashe stands against Nathi Mthethwa for the position of chairperson. The secretary general position is contested by Senzo Mchunu and Ace Magashule.  The current ANC deputy secretary general Duarte is standing again for her position against Zingiswa Losi with Paul Mashatile and Maite Nkoana-Mashabane vying for the treasurer general seat at the top six.  Notably, outgoing treasurer general Zweli Mkhize declined nomination for the position of deputy president explaining that his decision was taken for the sake of unity in the organisation.  Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  