Alex Mitchley Robert McBride. (File, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria – Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) head Robert McBride will only be able to make representations next year on why he should not be prosecuted for child abuse.  McBride has been charged with child abuse and an alternative charge of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, after allegedly assaulting one of his daughters four months ago.  The Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Monday heard that McBride had only received the charge sheet from the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) last week and that he would only be able to file representations in the new year.  "It appears that the charge sheet was only received last week and therefore the representation could not be finalised," said Magistrate Ignatius du Preez. Du Preez ordered that McBride submit his representations to the NPA by January 29, 2018. The NPA will have until February 27, 2018, to decide whether or not to proceed with the prosecution. At a court appearance in November, McBride's bail conditions were amended so that he could see and speak to one his daughters, who was a potential State witness in the child abuse case against him. Read: McBride's bail conditions amended to allow him time with youngest daughter Amendment 'in the interests of justice and fairness' McBride's attorney, Jaco Hamman, brought an application before the court for McBride to be able to make contact with and see his youngest daughter during the festive season.  Du Preez found in favour of McBride's application, amending bail conditions to exclude one of his daughters listed on the witness list. He said the amendment was in the interests of justice and fairness and would not be detrimental to the prosecution or the case if the application is granted.  Du Preez further said that there would be no limitations to the access granted to McBride and questioned why the State had not yet obtained a witness statement from this particular daughter. "The court is not convinced that a limitation with access to [one of McBride's daughters] is fair to Mr McBride," said Du Preez. McBride would not comment on the bail amendment, saying that it was a family matter.  Concern over school marks He was previously released on bail of R10 000, on the condition that he did not contact any of the witnesses, which included the daughter he allegedly assaulted and the younger daughter, who he will now be able to see.  The charges are related to an incident that allegedly took place while McBride and one of his daughters were driving in a car. He broke his silence after the news broke in August. "I admit that I admonished one of my daughters, whom I love very much," said McBride. He explained that he had become concerned about his daughter's school marks and "somewhat rebellious" behaviour, and had admonished her, but never assaulted her. The case has been postponed to February 27, 2018. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  