Zimbabwe ruling party seals Mugabe's fate Harare — Delegates from Zimbabwe's ruling party on Friday sealed the fate of Robert Mugabe, a man they had revered for decades but removed from power in dramatic scenes last month. The ZANU-PF congress officially endorsed its Central Committee's decision to recall Mugabe and replace him with Emmerson Mnangagwa as its leader. It also endorsed Mnangagwa as its candidate for the 2018 elections. Mnangagwa was inaugurated as the country's new president last month.  For more on this story click here  Mnangagwa set to strengthen grip on power at congress after Mugabe's shock ouster Harare - Zimbabwe's new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, is expected to use a conference of the ruling Zanu-PF party on Friday to consolidate his grip on power after Robert Mugabe's shock ouster last month. Mnangagwa took office after the military forced Mugabe to resign, ending a 37-year reign marked by brutal repression and economic collapse. The new president will address a one-day extraordinary congress in Harare, where he will be confirmed as the party's presidential candidate in next year's general elections. Read more on this story here  Zimbabwe's Mnangagwa vows new path for 'desecrated' party Harare - Zimbabwe's new president, Emmerson Mnangagwa, drew a firm line under the 37-year reign of Robert Mugabe in a keynote speech to the ruling Zanu-PF party on Friday. Mnangagwa took office last month after Mugabe was forced to quit when the military took power and Zanu-PF lawmakers launched impeachment proceedings against their veteran leader. Until recently, the new president was one of Mugabe's closest allies and critics say he is another authoritarian hardliner. Read more on this story here  Zim govt pays workers on time... a first in many years, says report Harare - Zimbabwean state workers have reportedly applauded government after it was announced this week that they would receive their December salaries on time for the first time in years. According to New Zimbabwe.com, the country's treasury permanent secretary, Willard Manungo,  confirmed the development in a memo which stated that the defence forces and the health sector would be the first to be paid on December 15. Manungo said that the police and prison services would be the next on December 19, with teachers and other civil servants expected to be paid on December 21. Read more on this story here  PIC: Ousted Robert Mugabe spotted leaving hospital in Singapore Singapore - Zimbabwe's former president Robert Mugabe, who was ousted from power last month, visited a Singapore hospital on Friday during a trip to the city-state for a medical check-up. It was the first time he has been seen in public since he was forced to resign after a military takeover brought a sudden end to his authoritarian 37-year reign. The 93-year-old was seen leaving a lift in Gleneagles Hospital in downtown Singapore around midday (04:00 GMT), wearing a white shirt and black trousers, and accompanied by eight people, AFP journalists said. Read more on this story here  Gabon MPs pass disputed constitutional text Libreville - A bill to revise Gabon's constitution, which opponents say risks letting President Ali Bongo retain power indefinitely, cleared a hurdle after the country's lower house overwhelmingly approved it, sources said on Friday. State media made no mention of the development but two lawmakers present told AFP the bill was passed in a plenary session on Thursday and an official source who declined to give his name confirmed as much. The national assembly is composed almost entirely of members of the ruling Gabonese Democratic Party (PDG). Read more on this story here  Liberia's ruling party petitions for election delay Monrovia - Liberia's ruling Unity Party has asked the Supreme Court to further delay the presidential runoff, which its candidate Vice President Joseph Boakai will contest on December 26. The party filed a request late on Thursday in which it called for the country's legislature to be given responsibility for determining the election date. The move came just hours after Boakai was dealt a setback, when a major opposition party announced it would back his rival, former football star George Weah. For more on this story click here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  