Jonathan Moyo (file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – The Zimbabwean government has reportedly frozen bank accounts of two top allies of former first lady Grace Mugabe.  The state-owned Herald newspaper reported on Friday that Home Affairs Minister Obert Mpofu had confirmed that the accounts of former local government minister Saviour Kasakuwere and ex-higher education minister Jonathan Moyo had been frozen. In an advertisement to all financial institutions, the Reserve Bank of  Zimbabwe said: "You are directed to identify and immediately freeze all accounts in the name of the above named individuals and any accounts in which the said individuals are directors or have a known beneficial interest. "The effect of the freeze is that (except any inflows into the account, which shall be processed normally and immediately notified to the unit) no other transactions shall be processed from a frozen account, until further the unit directs otherwise." Criminal activities  A Zimbabwe Independent report said that Kasukuwere had interests in energy, real estate and farming, while Moyo was early this year accused of corruption.  In September, the Constitutional Court threw out Moyo's application in which he challenged the arresting powers of the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission.  Moyo was facing charges of corruption involving $400 000 which the anti-corruption watchdog had preferred on him in 2016 before the former minister rushed to the ConCourt to challenge its powers. The two former ministers were identified as members of the generation 40 (G40) cabal that surrounded former president Mugabe, "taking advantage of his advanced age to engage in criminal activities". Moyo and Kasukuwere were believed to have skipped the country after the military takeover that saw the long-time president Mugabe kicked out of office in November. The two were now believed to be in Kenya with their families who fled after a military raid at their family homes soon after the takeover. Reacting on Twitter, Moyo said that if there was any authenticity to the directive, "then the law of the jungle is in operation in the so called New Era." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  