Alet Janse van Rensburg President Jacob Zuma (Photo: Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     News24 is live from the ANC National Elective Conference in Nasrec, Johannesburg. Watch as politics editor Mahlatse Mahlase speaks to ANC North West chair Supra Mahumapelo.WATCH Johannesburg - The ANC will be doing everything in their power to prevent
its national conference from collapsing, even if they run the risk of the
results of the presidential election being challenged later, says political analyst
Ralph Mathekga. ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte announced on
Sunday morning that delegate credentials (which clarifies the number of
delegates from each province allowed to vote) have been officially adopted.
That means they can now proceed to considering proposed amendments to the ANC
constitution, and ultimately start the voting process. “The question is, what are the conditions under which they
were adopted? Is there room for disputes after the fact? They’ve clearly
reached a consensus, but if everyone’s not happy, then they will challenge it
after the fact,” Mathekga says. “The conference now has potential to go on, not because
things were done procedurally correct, but because the delegates had the grace to
say, ‘fine, let’s accept the credentials so we can get on with it.’ Because
there will be those who feel aggrieved and they could disrupt the conference if
they wanted to. It can only mean that both factions feel confident that they
will win.”  A collapse of the conference at this stage could be
disastrous for the ANC’s 2019 national election campaign. “If ANC members cannot run their own house, why should
anyone trust them to run the country? As far as the country is concerned, Jacob
Zuma will continue as president, which could be a liability for the ANC in the
2019 elections. The sooner they rid themselves of Jacob Zuma, the better
position they’ll be in come 2019,” says Mathekga. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  