Paul Herman Barbara Hogan and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa at Ahmed Kathrada's funeral service in Johannesburg. (Felix Dlangamandla, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Former ANC NEC member Barbara Hogan says she would prefer Cyril Ramaphosa to succeed Jacob Zuma as party president at the ANC's national elective conference. Hogan on Monday told journalists at Nasrec, where the party is holding its 54th elective conference, that she had not lobbied for any particular candidate, but could not deny Ramaphosa's credentials. "My preference is for Cyril Ramaphosa. He's always been, in his history, an incredibly smart negotiator, and he always has the long view in mind.  - FOLLOW THE LIVE UPDATE "He is not the kind of type who would smash an organisation for his own ego." Ramaphosa and other frontrunner Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma have gone head-to-head for the party's top job on the final voting ballot, after nominations on Sunday cancelled out all other candidates. All other positions for the party's top 6 were also divided between the two slates as well, with two candidates competing for each position. Hogan spoke plainly about the divisions in the party, and said the idea of unity was only achievable if it was built around good governance. 'Unity must go beyond positions' "I think there are deep cleavages. It really has to be, not unity of people in positions, but unity on a set of values and ways in which we behave. "If everybody is committed to an incorruptible government, then I would love unity. "But if there are still going to be elements who believe it is their right to rob and steal from the poor, using our money, then what is the point of unity?" ALSO READ: Ramaphosa and NDZ go head to head She said she would wait for the outcome to determine if unity was still possible, as she was no longer at the centre of the party. Whichever leadership team emerged though, it was important for the party to keep them accountable. "Everyone must be held to account. Even if we think 'God' has been brought in, we must hold this government, and whatever comes in its wake, to account." Hogan defends Veterans League ANC President Jacob Zuma on Saturday said the party's Veterans League, of which Hogan is a member, was overstepping its advisory role, by giving instructions to the ANC's "mother body". The league had been critical of Zuma's leadership earlier this year, calling on him to resign, following his March Cabinet reshuffle. Hogan, though, said the party's veterans were crucial. "These aren't just veterans who decided they want to put their feet up at the coast. There are veterans who fought the fight in the ANC, understands its dynamics, its history, and understands our country." ALSO READ: The ANCWL will support Ramaphosa if he wins - Dlamini The emergence of young activists was always good, but it needed to be balanced with a good generational mix, and input from older generations. She added that she was proud of delegates who were fighting to uphold the party's constitutional processes. Recent court judgments had only upheld what the ANC had decided in its own constitution, and delegates were fighting to maintain the party's own rules. Earlier, Hogan rejected Zuma's "shocking" comment that her late husband and struggle veteran Ahmed Kathrada had not written his final letter asking Zuma to resign.  - Read more: Hogan rejects 'shocking' Zuma comment that Kathrada letter was faked WATCH: Why the numbers favour Ramaphosa   Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  