Heavily armed soldiers 'still deployed at Grace Mugabe's farm' – report Mazowe – Heavily armed Zimbabwean soldiers are reportedly still deployed at former first lady Grace Mugabe's farming empire which she controversially acquired in Mazowe. According to New Zimbabwe.com, an army tanker and several military trucks can be seen in the area, while a giant military tent has also been erected.   "… the military police continue to maintain a heavy presence near Grace Mugabe's farm, orphanage and private school," the report said. For more on this story click here  Mugabe's 'obedient son' sought 'divine intervention' against Grace's tirades Harare - He's the minister who once famously referred to himself as Robert Mugabe's "ever obedient son". Home Affairs Minister Obert Mpofu says he would ask his wife to pray for him to shield himself from former first lady Grace Mugabe's tirades at ruling party rallies where she dished out the dirt against her opponents within the ruling Zanu-PF. "Before attending rallies I would ask my wife to pray because it could be me who would be insulted," Mpofu told the state-run Chronicle. Mpofu's wife Sikhanyisiwe is a member of the Seventh Day Adventist Church. For more on this story click here  Zim govt 'to acquire 15 planes from Malaysia to resuscitate ailing Air Zimbabwe' – report Harare – The Zimbabwe government is reportedly set to acquire at least 15 planes as part of efforts to resuscitate the country's struggling national airline, Air Zimbabwe.  According to state owned Herald newspaper, the planes were set to be purchased from Malaysia.  The report quoted Transport and Infrastructure Minister Joram Gumbo as saying that the new planes were going to be bought through a public-private partnership. Said Gumbo: "The Civil Aviation Authority is on the verge of acquiring 15 new air planes from Malaysia under a lease agreement. The deal was penned between government and a private company DIDG, a consortium of business partners from the diaspora." For more on this story click here  Zanu-PF congress to endorse Mnangagwa as party leader after Mugabe ouster Harare – Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party is gearing up for its extraordinary congress that is set to take place on Friday in Harare. The congress would see President Emmerson Mnangagwa being endorsed as the party leader by the country’s 10 provinces. The state-owned Herald newspaper, reported on Tuesday that the aim of the congress would be to "endorse changes that came up as a result of Operation Restore Legacy that helped stop ruinous divisions in the revolutionary party".  The report quoted Zanu-PF spokesperson Simon Khaya Moyo as saying that the revolutionary party was "ready to roar and would emerge stronger after the congress ahead of the 2018 harmonised elections". Read more on this story here  UN promises justice in DRC against peacekeeper attacks Beni - The United Nations Deputy Special Representative for Democratic Republic of Congo says military offenses will be launched against rebels who killed at least 15 Tanzanian UN peacekeepers last week in eastern Congo. In a memorial ceremony on Monday David Gressly said those who staged the assault, which wounded 50 others, will pay for their actions. The December 7 attack about 45km from Beni was the deadliest single attack on a UN peacekeeping mission in nearly 25 years. Read more on this story here  Mugabe flies out to Far East for medical checks... his first trip since ouster – reports Harare – Zimbabwe's former president Robert Mugabe, 93, has reportedly left the country for routine medical checks in Singapore - the nonagenarian's first foreign trip since his ouster in November.  According to Reuters, a state security official, who chose to remain anonymous because he was not authorised to speak to the media, said that Mugabe was accompanied by his family and aides. The former states man, who ruled the southern African country for 37 years, was expected to make a stop-over in Malaysia, where his daughter, Bona, was expecting a second child. Read more on this story here  Somali journalist killed in front of children Mogadishu - A Somali television journalist was killed by a car bomb in front of his children, relatives said, the fifth murder of a journalist in the war-torn country this year. Mohamed Ibrahim Gabow, a journalist working for Kalsan TV, had taken a break from work to spend time with his children. He had just left his home on Monday afternoon when a bomb planted beneath the driver's seat ripped through the car. He later died of his wounds in hospital. Read more on this story here      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  