President Jacob Zuma. (Gianluigi Guercia, AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Controversial businessman Roy Moodley has received questionable "fees" from yet another contractor to Prasa; Rand powers through R13.30/$ as Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma campaign suffers triple blow; and 6 gigs that will rock your weekend. Today's top stories: Steinhoff sells 20.6 million PSG shares for R4.7bn Steinhoff International announced it has sold 20.6 million shares in PSG - or about 9.5% of its total share capital - raising approximately R4.7bn. Fin24 has more ANC delegate and Zuma 'keeper' Moodley scores Prasa millions Roy Moodley, the controversial Durban businessman who once allegedly paid President Jacob Zuma a salary, received questionable "fees" from yet another contractor to the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa).  Read more here Rand powers through R13.30/$ as NDZ campaign suffers triple blow The rand strengthened more than 1.8% on Friday to below R13.30 to the US dollar amid optimism that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa would be victorious in the race for ANC president. More here #GuptaLeaks: Confidence game – or how professionals missed massive fraud at Oakbay listing The #GuptaLeaks prove what many have long suspected: that the November 2014 JSE listing of the Guptas’ Oakbay Resources & Energy – sponsored by Sasfin Capital, audited by KPMG and banked by Absa – was rooted in fraud. Read more here Zuma's voting process proposal shot down The ANC's national executive committee (NEC) has shot down a proposal to separate the voting process for the positions of president and deputy president. Read here Dlamini-Zuma loses out on KZN PEC votes The KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Pietermaritzburg has granted an application for leave to appeal, brought by the provincial executive committee (PEC) of the ANC, which is led by chairperson Sihle Zikalala. Read more here ANC Free State PEC, several branches barred from attending elective conference The High Court in Bloemfontein has barred several Free State branches from attending the national elective conference after the court nullified the party's provincial conference. Read here IN DEPTH: Unraveling the City of Cape Town's looming implosion The City of Cape Town could be on the brink of a total meltdown as allegations between top staffers - which surfaced through recent investigations, documents and leaks - have revealed just how fragmented its leadership is. Read more here 6 gigs that will rock your weekend It’s almost the weekend and if you don’t have any plans yet, then look no further! Channel24 has more here Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  