iStock 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – The Zimbabwean government has reportedly said that it
would not tolerate any fresh farm gabs, adding that "the law would come hard on
those who seek to disrupt farming activities by legally resettled people". According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Agriculture,
Lands and Resettlement Minister Perrance Shiri said last week that the
government was pushing for the issuance of 99-year leases. "We realise as the ministry of lands,
agriculture and resettlement that for all our aspirations to be realised we
need total stability on the farms and to that effect we shall ensure that
(illegal) farm occupations will not be tolerated anymore. Offer letters should
be respected. The process of issuance of 99-year leases shall be expedited
to allow long-term planning by the farmers and to also allow them to access
funding," Shiri was quoted as saying. Shiri's
remarks came a few days after a white Zimbabwean farmer forced from his land as
part of controversial mass evictions became the first to return to his property
under a new government bid to reverse illegal land seizures. Evicted at gunpoint  Robert Smart, 71, was thrown off
his tobacco and corn farm in eastern Zimbabwe in June as part of chaotic and
often violent land grabs led by ex-president Robert Mugabe's government. Smart said he and his family were
evicted at gunpoint "with whatever we had on our backs at the moment"
to make way for a cleric close to Mugabe. But last month the 93-year-old
ruler was ousted following a military takeover after more than three decades in
power. The government of his successor
Emmerson Mnangagwa in early December ordered people illegally occupying
formerly white-owned commercial farms to vacate. Many people had illegally taken
over farms cashing in on the land reforms. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  