Mnangagwa says Grace Mugabe ally free to come back home as Botswana tells him to leave Gaborone – Zimbabwe's ex-vice president Phekezela Mphoko has reportedly been given up to December 1 to leave Botswana by President Ian Khama's government.  According to New Zimbabwe.com, Mphoko – a member of the generation 40 cabal that was backing Grace Mugabe – left the southern African country on an official visit to Japan before the military took over the country on November 15. He did not return to Zimbabwe but instead flew to a government house in Gaborone, Botswana. But a highly placed Botswana government source said that President Khama’s government had had enough of Mphoko’s stay in the country and had given him an ultimatum to leave  by December 1. For more on this story click here  Song by cricketer who protested against Mugabe in 2003 becomes soundtrack of change in Zim Harare - When two Zimbabwe cricketers, one black and one white, staged a daring protest against the regime of Robert Mugabe at a World Cup game 14 years ago, they knew it would probably end their careers at home and maybe even put their lives in danger. At the 2003 cricket World Cup, with TV cameras beaming the action live to the world, Henry Olonga and Andy Flower walked out at a stadium across the road from Mugabe's offices in Harare wearing black armbands taped over the sleeves of their red Zimbabwe shirts. It was to mourn what they called "the death of democracy" in their country under Mugabe. For more on this story click here  African Union says 3 800 migrants in Libya need urgent repatriation Abidjan - The head of the African Union's executive commission, Moussa Faki Mahamat, on Thursday said around 3 800 migrants needed to be repatriated urgently from Libya. "They want to get out of this mess as swiftly as possible," he said at a summit of the AU and the European Union in Abidjan dominated by the issue of migrant abuse in Libya. He said there were between "400 000 and 700 000" migrants in Libya, and at least 42 migrant camps there. Read more on this story here  Zim's president Mnangagwa has 'small window' to act Harare - Zimbabwe's main opposition leader says new President Emmerson Mnangagwa has a "very small window" to show he is meeting national expectations of change after the downfall of his predecessor, Robert Mugabe. Morgan Tsvangirai said on Thursday in an interview with The Associated Press that it will be "very difficult to convince anyone" that Zimbabwe's new leadership is improving the situation as long as much of the population is struggling to get by in the economically devastated country. Read more on this story here  Togo opposition parties vow to keep up pressure on president Lome - Togo's opposition parties pledged on Wednesday to maintain the momentum of anti-government protests, as thousands took to the streets once more ahead of promised talks with the president. The leader of the National Alliance for Change (ANC), Jean-Pierre Fabre, led the crowds in the capital but similar protests were banned on security grounds in the north. "Mobilisation will continue, even during talks. We are not going to give up the fight," Fabre told AFP. A source in Togo's second-largest city of Sokode - the stronghold of Tikpi Atchadam, the Panafrican National Party leader behind the demonstrations -- said the streets were calm. Read more on this story here  Nine people missing as boat capsizes off Tanzania Stone Town - At least nine people were missing on Wednesday after a boat carrying construction materials capsized while heading toward the Zanzibar archipelago off Tanzania, maritime authorities said. The vessel, the Masha Allah, sank on the route between Tanga and Pemba, one of the two main islands of the archipelago, and none of the three crew members and at least six passengers have been found since the accident was reported on Tuesday morning. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  