Tshidi Madia Gwede Mantashe reads from the ANC constitution on day two of the 54th National Conference. (Deaan Vivier, Gallo Images, Netwerk24, File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The ANC’s outgoing secretary general, Gwede Mantashe, has stated in his final organisational report that the tripartite alliance is close to collapsing. He has called on the party's incoming leadership to breathe new life into the strained partnership. The ANC’s alliance partners have been some of the party’s biggest critics in recent years, with the SACP, trade union federation Cosatu and civic organisation Sanco calling for the ANC to recall President Jacob Zuma. ALSO READ: Gwede slates Yengeni: 'It's easy to collect quick, populist votes' Cosatu’s unions also refused to be addressed by Zuma, with workers booing the president at a Workers Day rally in May. "The call for the president to step down deepened the crisis. The disruption of some of the May Day rallies, particularly the main rally in Mangaung, signalled the near collapse of the alliance," Mantashe said. He said the ANC’s historic allies seemed to be seeking alternative allies, and participating in joint programmes with "other forces" and those who had been historically hostile towards the liberation movement. Follow our live updates here: LIVE FROM NASREC: Roy Moodley spotted at Zuma media walkabout SACP first deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila participated in a march with opposition parties, calling for Zuma to step down. The SACP also took a decision which could see it going alone in the 2019 general elections, a decision that was tested out during the Metsimaholo municipal by-elections, in the Free State, in November. Mantashe said this had worsened tensions within the movement. "This conference must dig deep into the challenges facing the alliance, so that genuine solutions can be found." 'SACP has to step up its ideological contribution' The ANC’s partners have indicated throughout the year that they want the alliance to be reconfigured - complaining about how the ANC made unilateral decisions, instead of consulting with them. Some in the ANC have already criticised the SACP and Cosatu for commenting on the ANC’s challenges. "We must answer whether alliance structures need to be adapted in the current conditions," Mantashe said, while proposing solutions to the challenges. WATCH: Gwede Mantashe on the state of the ANC The outgoing secretary general also suggested that the alliance partners also address their own weaknesses and problems. "The SACP has to step up its ideological contribution and scientific analysis to the debate, particularly now that the movement is going through a very difficult period." He added that Cosatu needed urgent attention from the alliance, saying the biggest challenge was that industrial unions in the federation were weak, and that this had resulted in the organisation being dominated by the public sector. Mantashe said that, although Sanco had challenges with resources, it was more stable than ever. Visit our special report, #ANCVotes, for all the news, analysis and opinions about the ANC’s national elective conference.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  