Mugabe relatives cut ties with 'disrespectful' Grace 2 years ago – report Harare – Relatives of former Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe have reportedly claimed that they cut ties with their daughter-in-law Grace Mugabe more than two years ago. According to Voice of America (VOA), the Mugabe clan accused Grace of being "disrespectful to family elders, showing off and sowing seeds of disharmony within the family".   Mugabe's uncle Ben Matibiri claimed that Grace belittled everyone in the Mugabe family "as she tried to borrow powers at every opportunity". This, he said was the complete opposite of Mugabe’s first wife, the late Sally Hefron Mugabe, whom he described as a "great daughter" to the family. For more on this story click here Zimbabwe's new leader Mnangagwa drops 2 ministers after public outcry Harare - Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Saturday dropped two ministers he had appointed to his new cabinet just a day earlier, a move widely seen as a response to a public uproar over the nominations. Mnangagwa, 75, named his cabinet overnight on Thursday, and is expected to appoint two vice presidents following a special Zanu-PF congress in mid-December. But he quickly replaced education minister Lazarus Dokora with Paul Mavima, a professor and also a lawmaker in the governing Zanu-PF party. For more on this story click here Zimbabwe truck accident kills 21: state media Harare - At least 21 people were killed at the weekend when a truck overturned in western Zimbabwe, state media reported on Sunday. The truck was carrying 69 passengers when it "failed to negotiate a curve and overturned" at a business centre in the district of Tsholotsho on Saturday evening, according to Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC). Among the 21 known deaths, 15 people died at the scene and six in hospital, reported ZBC. A further 21 people were wounded in the accident. Read more on this story here  AU diplomat applauds Zim military action, says 'there was no coup' Washington DC – An African Union diplomat says that "there was no coup" in Zimbabwe as the military acted within the provisions of the southern African country’s constitution. According to Voice of America, speaking at a forum 'Zimbabwe: The Way Forward' in Washington DC AU diplomat Dr Chihombori Quao said that the military action was justified as it averted a political crisis. "They acted within the constitution to do that. So, there was no coup but there was a provision within the constitution for the army to do that because of the conditions on the ground at that time and they moved in swiftly according to the constitution and address the issue," Quao was quoted as saying. For more on this story click here  Kenyan opposition group says top adviser is in detention Nairobi - Kenya's main opposition group says police have detained one of its advisers ahead of a planned protest ceremony to stage a mock inauguration of Raila Odinga as president. Odinga's National Super Alliance said in a statement that the detained man, economist David Ndii, was recently appointed chairman of a committee organising the protest event on December 12. The statement said police arrested Ndii on Sunday in Diani on Kenya's Indian Ocean coast. Read more on this story here  Zimbabwe's president Mnangagwa swears in first post-Mugabe cabinet Harare - Zimbabwe's president has sworn in a new cabinet that includes ruling party loyalists as well as figures in the military, whose takeover helped oust former leader Robert Mugabe. President Emmerson Mnangagwa said after the ceremony on Monday that a priority is to revive Zimbabwe's battered economy. Among the new cabinet members are Major General Sibusiso Moyo, the foreign minister, and Air Marshal Perrance Shiri, the agriculture minister. Mnangagwa dropped several initial appointees because of a requirement that most ministers should be members of parliament. The rule did not apply to the two military officers. Read more on this story here 5 Lesotho soldiers charged in shooting of newspaper editor Maseru - A brigadier and four other soldiers in Lesotho have been charged with attempted murder for the 2016 shooting of an editor whose newspaper was seen as critical of the military commander at the time. The five suspects were charged last week and are due in court again on December 13 for the attack on Lesotho Times editor Lloyd Mutungamiri, whose jaw was shattered in the shooting and required reconstructive surgery. For more on this story click here     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  