President Jacob Zuma during his address at the ANC's elective conference. (Deaan Vivier, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – In case you missed it, here are some of the most popular stories from City Press on Sunday, 17 December. The day of reckoning for the ANC As a last-minute attempt to avert a bruising contest for the presidency of the ANC failed, President Jacob Zuma made a thinly-disguised endorsement without naming names. In his last speech as president of the ANC after 10 years at the helm, Zuma warned that the choice of who leads the party must not be dictated by external players like business interests. He also told the 5 000 delegates that they should dismiss the notion that the country and the ANC would implode if they opted for “certain outcomes or elected certain candidates if these are not favoured by business”. READ FULL STORY How Zuma tried to buy time from the law President Jacob Zuma tried to buy more time from the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in an apparent bid to ensure further delays to the fraud and corruption case against him. A series of letters between national director of public prosecutions Shaun Abrahams and lawyers for the DA indicate that Zuma asked to be given until the middle of February to make further submissions in his bid to avoid prosecution. Last week, City Press reported that Zuma’s representations to Abrahams – as to why he should not be prosecuted on 783 charges of fraud and corruption relating to the arms deal – were contained in scores of lever arch files. READ MORE The Afrikaner privilege machine It is surprisingly easy to fail at being an Afrikaner. Behave the wrong kind of badly in Stellenbosch and the decision is final: the tribe has spoken. The Stellenbosch Mafia is a loose and loosely unfair name for the Afrikaner-industrial complex seated in the town. Its members include Johann Rupert and Jannie Durand from Remgro; Dr Edwin Hertzog from Mediclinic International; Jannie Mouton of PSG; and the now embattled figures of Christo Wiese, Whitey Basson and recently disgraced Steinhoff CEO Markus Jooste. READ FULL STORY Mondli Makhanya: We are a country of laws The strategy and tactics document prepared by the ANC for its policy and elective conferences this year contains the following prescient passage: “Instead of being the centre of transformative and ethical rectitude, increasingly the ANC and the government it leads have occasionally to be directed from elsewhere – in the manner of ‘lawfare’ – to do right. The moral suasion that the ANC has wielded to lead society is waning; and the electorate is starting more effectively to assert its negative judgement.” How apt, especially considering the events of the past 14 days in the courts of the land. READ FULL COLUMN Blitzboks and Boks – a tale of two rugby teams One of the enduring mysteries in South African rugby over the past two seasons has been trying to work out how on earth the Springboks and the Blitzboks are run by the same organisation. Never have two sides been more different, both in outlook and output. One has specialised in consistently underwhelming us, while the other almost always punches above its bantamweight status. READ MORE of what Simnikiwe Xabanisa has to say Rape survivor’s week of hell after speaking out against prominent politician Jackie Phamotse has lived through a week of hell after she spoke out about being gang-raped at the age of 17. She dropped the bombshell last Saturday at the launch of Bare, her novel about blessees and the sex lives of powerful South African politicians and businessmen. She told City Press that the man leading the attack is today a deputy minister, but she has refused to reveal his name. READ FULL STORY   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  