Jana van der Merwe Dianne Ayres. Her body was found a week ago next to the N1 highway near Kilner Park. PHOTO: Facebook  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria - Police are still trying to piece together exactly what happened after the mutilated body of Pretoria woman Dianne Ayres (35), a freelance writer, was found a week ago under mysterious circumstances next to the N1 highway near Kilner Park, north of the city. “We’re trying to come to terms with what happened,” Dianne’s mother, Rose, told YOU on Tuesday. “We’re living a nightmare.” She hopes the police will be able to solve the mystery behind the tragedy. Captain Coba Brits, local police spokesperson, confirmed to YOU on Tuesday that the police have so far not had a breakthrough in the case. Her body was found in the early hours of Thursday 30 November near the Lynette Street bridge, next to the N1 north.  Captain Brits has asked anyone with information to come forward. “Police are currently investigating a case of manslaughter. We’re following up on all leads and are in the process of taking statements – there are many. “No other possibilities, including murder, are excluded,” Brits said. According to Brits there’s no truth to initial rumours that Dianne’s body had been found chopped up in pieces. Her face had, however, been mutilated. She says it must’ve been traumatic to the family to see their loved one in that condition in the morgue. “The victim’s limbs were all intact but it’s true that she’d been mutilated. Her face was unrecognisable,” Brits says. The police’s current theory is that Dianne was killed in a hit-and-run incident, probably between midnight and 1.45am.  A passer-by found her body at 1.55am and contacted law enforcement. “Police immediately started putting together an identikit to try and establish the victim’s identity,” Brits says. But Dianne’s body was only identified when her family reported her missing on 5 December and police subsequently connected the two cases. She was last seen on Wednesday 29 November when a friend dropped her off at home after they’d attended the funeral of a mutual friend. When Dianne’s body was found next to the road, she was still clothed in the black skirt and blouse she’d worn to the funeral. Rose says she’s been burdened by guilt because she hadn’t immediately reported her daughter missing. The distraught mom says the family had searched for her, only to find the worst had happened. “They released her remains yesterday, now we can lay her to rest,” Rose says. The family is still in the process of organising a funeral. -          Anyone with information is urged to contact the Villieria police station on 012-403-8600, or the investigating officer in the case, Detective Paul Mamabolo on 078-421-8254.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  