Kaveel Singh and Mpho Raborife ANCWL president Bathabile Dlamini. (File, Netwerk24)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Durban - ANCWL President Bathabile Dlamini has accused the judiciary of carrying itself as though it is being lobbied by certain individuals. Speaking on behalf of the league at a rally in Clermont, Durban, where presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma was expected to address the crowd, Dlamini described the High Court's ruling that NPA head Shaun Abraham vacate his seat, as an injustice. "There is no justice in the issue that was taken about the NPA," she said. On Friday, a full bench in the North Gauteng High Court - comprising Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo, Judge Natvarlal Ranchod and Judge Willem van der Linde handed down a judgment which found that Abrahams must vacate his seat. The judgment was a result of an application lodged by Freedom Under Law, Corruption Watch and the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac) who went to court seeking an order declaring former National Prosecuting Authority boss Mxolisi Nxasana's removal invalid. The applicants also wanted to challenge a R17.3m golden handshake Zuma had offered Nxasana to vacate his office. He was replaced by Abrahams. While handing down the judgment, Mlambo ruled that it would not be just for Nxasana to be reinstated and that, due to his pending corruption case, Zuma was conflicted in appointing a National Director of Public Prosecutions. The court ruled that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa should appoint a new NDPP in the next 60 days. READ: High Court ruling on Shaun Abrahams 'a serious judicial over-reach' – MKMVA Earlier, the Umkhoto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) had called the ruling a "serious judicial over-reach" which intended to favour the candidacy of Ramaphosa. "This was done despite the fact that there is no provision in the Constitution for the deputy president to be simply appointed to take over this important duty of the president," the MKMVA said in a statement earlier. Dlamini added the league's voice to the chorus, saying that the Constitution made it clear that such duties were for the president. She called on members of the women's league not to agree with this. "Women who have integrity will stand up for the truth. There are duties of the president that are clear in the Constitution and as women, we know about that and those are the things that will teach us to have a backbone. "Whether you want a person or not, when you know the truth, the truth will allow you to speak without having to bite your tongue." She accused the judiciary of behaving in such a way that it seemed as though government was being led by that arm of the state. "The South African government has three legs, Cabinet, Legislature and Judiciary. So we are asking, can the judges please be neutral if they want us to respect them." "Let us not be cheap in such a way that it shows that we are lobbying the judiciary of South Africa. The way our judiciary carries itself, it shows that it is being lobbied.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  