Ashraf Hendricks  Lindani and Luniko Madolo were electrocuted by live cables in Philippi East. (Ashraf Hendricks, GroundUp) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Philippi East residents picketed outside the Cape Town Civic Centre on Tuesday, calling on the City to fix street lights following the electrocution of two children in November.They also called for details of the investigation into the tragedy, according to a GroundUp report. Lindani Madolo, 6, and her brother Luniko, 5, were electrocuted by stray wires from a street light in the Thabo Mbeki informal settlement in Philippi East on November 1.Their mother, Viwe Madolo, was among the picketers. READ: Woman electrocuted by her shack in Marikana Luniko wanted to be a taxi driver, she told GroundUp.  "He was a boy full of fun and he liked to play." Lindani was the one who would tell her mother when the other children caused trouble, Viwe Madolo said. Illegal electricity connections blamed About 50 community members and supporters of the Social Justice Coalition (SJC) came out in support of the family holding pictures of the children and placards reading "Safer electricity in our community".Madolo said that she had had no communication with the City of Cape Town.  "They did nothing at all," she says. The only support she has is from the community.Community leader Buzwe Kali said residents were afraid other children could die.  "We are in Christmas. The area is busy," he said.Mayoral committee member for Area South, councillor Eddie Andrews, said electricity department staff had inspected the pole and stray wire.  The damage was consistent with damage done by "vandals to facilitate an illegal electricity connection", he said. He said copper wire was missing, which "can only be attributed to copper theft which is rife in the area".The incident was being investigated by the department of labour and the city was also assigning an "independent professional expert", Andrews said.The picketers' memorandum was handed to Phumlani Godlo from the mayor's office. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  