Mahlatse Mahlase and Tshidi Madia  ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe. (Supplied)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The ANC will hold an emergency national executive committee (NEC) meeting following court judgments expected to have an impact on its national elective conference that gets underway on Saturday.  News24 has learnt that the meeting was called following the court judgments affecting KwaZulu-Natal, Free State and North West province's Bojanala region. Presidential candidate Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma's campaign suffered major blows, with the judgments potentially costing her more than a hundred votes.  The KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Pietermaritzburg granted the provincial executive committee (PEC) the right to appeal a ruling disbanding the committee, but its judgment ruled the PEC's members could not cast their votes at the conference, denying the province 27 votes. In the Free State, last week's controversial elective conference was set aside, meaning that the PEC there will also lose its 27 votes and another potential 14 votes from branches barred from attending the elective conference.  In the North West, the Bojanala regional conference was set aside. The court further ruled that the branch general meetings of 38 branches, held between October and November for the election of delegates to attend the Nasrec conference, were irregular, invalid and unconstitutional.  The majority of these votes were expected to go to Dlamini-Zuma.  Earlier, KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Sihle Zikalala told journalists that the province would wait to hear from the NEC, adding that 12 of the 27 members would be voting in the conference as branch delegates while some would be non-voting delegates and others weren't expected to pitch.  "We don't want this to be an issue. We don't want the conference to be stuck on credentials about the status of the KZN PEC," Zikalala told journalists. For more on the elective conference, visit our special report page #ANCVotes  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  