Angelique Serrao Former acting national police commissioner Lesetja Mothiba. (Jan Gerber, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Twenty-two of the most senior crime officers, in charge of counter, security intelligence and national security, do not have valid security clearance certificates. The officers are in the top positions at crime intelligence and include; • The head of the secret service account;• The head of covert intelligence collection;• The KwaZulu-Natal, Free State, North West and Northern Cape provincial heads;• The section heads in charge of national security, narcotics, finance, covert collection, Interpol and;• The section head in charge of internal audit, evaluation and monitoring. Crime intelligence officers need the clearance to be allowed to view top secret documents containing highly-sensitive information. ALSO READ: Senior police officers promoted without security clearance, Parliament hears The list of officers was provided to the director general of the State Security Agency (SSA) by then-acting national commissioner Lesetja Mothiba. It was attached to a letter written in July this year and which is titled "Crime Intelligence: Senior Management Service Members: security clearance". The letter, seen by News24, refers to an earlier discussion which took place between the acting police commissioner, the acting divisional commissioner of crime intelligence and the Minister of State Security. It said the list attached was all the senior managers at the rank of major general and brigadier within crime intelligence, both nationally and provincially, who did not have valid security clearance. Mothiba asks that the SSA facilitate the vetting process. 'In progress' In a separate document, seen by News24, the status of the security clearance process is listed for all the major generals and brigadiers. Fifteen of the officers are listed as having their clearance "in progress", but six of them include the fact that their status was under investigation. Four were listed as being at the polygraph stage and another four were listed as being at the evaluation phase. News24 understands this means that all the phases, including the last one which is the polygraph test, have been completed and the documents are being evaluated and the certificate is waiting to be issued. Previous Crime Intelligence commissioner major general Pat Mokushane is listed as being at the evaluation phase in the process, as well as a major-general and brigadier from crime intelligence’s head office. Mokushane was fired from his position in August for not having a valid clearance certificate. ALSO READ: Acting police commissioner Mothiba to oversee crime intelligence But, these documents indicate that there is a general backlog in the issuing of the certificates and Mokushane’s was not an isolated incident. City Press reported that Mokushane and two of his colleagues were allegedly in possession of fraudulent top secret security clearance certificates. This was according to Major-General Dumezweni Zimu, the head of counter and security intelligence who wrote a letter to Mokushane and Mothiba raising the issue of Mokushane’s clearance. Mothiba had told Parliament that employing Mokushane without the proper paperwork in place had been an "oversight". According to Zimu, Mokushane still had to submit documentation to get his clearance including his matric certificate, tertiary qualifications, registration documents for his three companies, declaration of interests, financial disclosures, credit card details, property ownership records, hire-purchase agreements and bank statements to the vetting team. 'Harrowing reflection of systemic failure' However, the documents News24 has seen indicate that Zimu himself does not have top secret clearance. Zimu and another two members from head office are listed as having their top secret clearance expired. The document says they must re-apply. Another three officers were listed as having had no previous application. Zimu’s clearance was listed as being more than three years expired; it was last valid in February 2014 according to the document. ALSO READ: Crime intel boss investigated for security clearance, misuse of funds Earlier this month, the DA released a statement which said that at a presentation delivered before Parliament’s Police Portfolio Committee it was revealed that almost three quarters of rank and file CI division employees did not have security clearance. The release said that some of the findings showed that:   - Three SAPS generals were denied security clearance and a further 12 had expired; - 125 SAPS generals and brigadiers failed to apply for security clearance; - The clearance of more than 1 300 CI employees had expired while a further 85 were denied security clearance; - 6 130 CI members have no clearance at all. "This provides a harrowing reflection of the systemic failure in leadership of the police and CI in the country. It speaks to the deep divisions within the R3.54 billion CI division," said the DA’s Dianne Kohler Barnard. Police had not yet responded to News24's queries, but it is believed that the issue of clearance certificates will be discussed at Parliament's police portfolio committee later on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  