Alex Mitchley Durban - Traffic toward Pietermaritzburg from Durban in KwaZulu-Natal has been heavily affected following two separate truck accidents on Thursday morning.  - Are you affected?  Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos.  KZN EMS spokesperson, Robert McKenzie told News24 that there were two separate accidents on the N3 near Pietermaritzburg and lanes on the highway had to be closed for recovery efforts.  In the first incident a truck overturned on the N3 northbound near Cliffdale. Two people were injured.  "The accident is severely affecting traffic Pietermaritzburg-bound," said McKenzie. The second accident, also involving a truck, happened on the N3 at the New England road on-ramp. McKenzie said one person was injured and lanes were also closed due to recovery efforts, but added that the section of the road should be opened shortly.   Crash N3 to PMB at Cliffdale I/C, all lanes closed pic.twitter.com/TG6UvwWxJP  Durban - N3 West (Update): #TruckCrash near Hammarsdale - ROAD CLOSED - QUEUE starts just past Mariannhill plaza (its bad !!) pic.twitter.com/jSCBDUhKA1 RT (Ongoing) Crash (Overturned truck), N3 to PMB at Cliffdale I/C. Road closed, Expect heavy delays. https://t.co/1QooCAM0XY … pic.twitter.com/LX8QZOmKjc KZN - N3 North (Update) #TruckCrash at Cliffdale - ROAD CLOSED - recovery vehicles on scene - HEAVY TRAFFIC DELAYS going towards PMB pic.twitter.com/uxdTYUhNeu   N3 New England road. South Bound. Slow lane. Truck overturned and officials are currently on scene. Freeway closed at New England Road due to the recovery. pic.twitter.com/6gEtbmt1iu  KZN - N3 West: #TruckCrash near Hammarsdale: Recovery Trucks on the scene RT @sfunukwaziNews Is anything being done though to at least open 1 lane?its been hours now with no movement @TrafficSA pic.twitter.com/4YU6TeQXOO   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  