The YUPP Youth for Youth VolunteersFront ( L to R): Casey Frazenberg, Bolekwa Ntshintshi, Tarryn de Reuck, Steven Daniels, Ayesha HendricksBack (L to R): Branwin Basson, Meagan Francis, Ntombizanele Mzalisi, Zintle Tshangela, Althea Petersen Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Youth Unemployment Prevention Project (YUPP) has started their outreach campaign in the greater Cape Town area to assist youth who are seeking employment opportunities. The initiative is driven by the Youth for Youth Volunteers led by Tarryn De Reuck from Beacon Valley, Mitchells Plain. “It is really tough finding employment when so many companies are retrenching staff, especially youth who have little or no work experience, and only a matric, and even more difficult for those without matric”. “We have found that many youth do not possess the job hunting tools or skills required to find employment. We assist them to overcome these obstacles by advising them about their CV, how to improve their CV to improve their chances of finding employment, as well as a list of companies where they can apply to”. Another Youth for Youth volunteer, Bolekwa Ntshintshi from Crossroads, said she has experienced the challenges of looking for work. “It is very difficult finding work today, and many youth do not have the support required to find a job. We want to assist each and every youth looking for a job. We want to make it easier for them by showing them what employers look for in CV’s and advise them on ways they can strengthen their CV’s as well as showing them where and how to apply for jobs”. Ayesha Hendericks from Mitchells Plain said that many youth are ill-prepared for employment and lack work experience, qualifications, and confidence to find employment. “However, now is the best time to find work, with many companies needing staff over the holidays and companies taking on new staff in the new year.” YUPP offers youth free programmes to gain valuable work experience as well as certificates and reference letters which then vastly increase their chances of finding employment. They are then provided with a list of companies where they can apply for work. Two recent graduates of the YUPP programmes have now found work, one in a retail store and another at a call centre. If you are between the ages of 18 and 24, or know anyone between 18 and 24 who need assistance with finding employment, you can contact the Youth Unemployment Prevention Project to find out how they can assist you: WhatsApp: 079 622 0934. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  