Aphiwe Boyce Thembisile Yende (Facebook) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The mother of the slain former Eskom
employee, Thembisile Yende, is scared for her family after hearing that the
alleged killer of her daughter was granted bail. Advocate Zola Majavu revealed to DRUM that David Ngwenya was
granted R15 000 bail by the Springs Magistrate's Court on Thursday. Ngwenya was arrested on 15 June and was denied bail in his
first appearance on 18 June. His previous bail applications had failed but
Majavu had remained adamant that the outstanding DNA results would exonerate
his client of the charges. Majavu had said he was also in possession of video
footage relating to the case as well as a DNA report, but would not give
further details. Speaking to DRUM on Thursday, the elated Majavu said: “We
won the bail appeal for David…I am on my way to Modderbee Prison to secure his
release.” Accusation Ngwenya, a 43-year-old technician at Eskom, is accused of
injecting his alleged lover and junior colleague, Thembisile with a substance
before striking her on the head with a crowbar and subsequently suffocating and
strangling her after a struggle. He allegedly killed her after he suspected that she would
"spill the beans" on his alleged involvement in a copper cable theft
syndicate.  Thembisile, a 29-year-old mother of one, went missing on 17
May. Her body was found in her office at the isolated Eskom Pietersboth
substation in Springs about 36 kilometres outside of Johannesburg. This was
after Eskom workers detected a bad smell more than a week after she was
reported missing. On hearing the news of David’s successful bail application,
Thembisile's mother, Nesta said: “I was not aware of that; if that is true,
it’s unfair to us as a family. It put our lives at risk, we don’t know what he
can do to us. I am very disappointed.” Quizzed about what is in the footage and the DNA results,
the confident Majavu said: “Watch the space for what will transpire at the
trial.”  He added that he will advise his client not to comment on
his release. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  