Nation Nyoka Dr Makhosi Khoza on Day 2 of the launch of her new party, African Democratic Change in Johannesburg. (Nation Nyoka, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Dr Makhosi Khoza has said, at Liliesleaf Farm, Johannesburg on Saturday that she still has family within the ANC despite her decision to form a new party. “We've been like family, it’s just that I am this member of the family that has decided that my home is no longer functional…I still have people in the ANC that I still view as my political mothers and my political fathers, but unfortunately, I have decided to side with the people of South Africa,” she said. She described her party - the African Democratic Change (ADeC), as an organisation founded on the philosophy of ubuntu, and compassion. Khoza said ADeC would bring policy certainty, something she said the ANC failed to do. “We are in a better position to correct some of the mistakes of the ANC because I know exactly where some of the challenges of the ANC were. Over and above the moral and ethical decay, the ANC has been unable to take decisive decisions, especially economic decisions,” she said, adding that this was not good for a country in economic decline. The former ANC Member of Parliament said the inclusion of different groups in Parliament meant tougher decision-making for the incumbent government.   “You have capitalists, the communist party…It’s very difficult to even come up with policies that are going to be speaking directly to the demands of the economy and the challenges that the economy is going through” she said. Khoza, who was in the ANC for 35 years before her resignation, said that her new party would not have an elective conference until after the 2019 elections. 'Phenomenal women' “We don’t want to be divided…and forget what actually brought us together. It’s very important for us to, first of all, establish structures [and] once people understand what we are about, we will be in a better position to have a conference. We [party members] have not worked with each other so we will get to know one another and appreciate each other’s strengths and weaknesses,” she said. Khoza has received criticism from political analysts who have questioned the need for a new political party. “They have a right to their own views, but you know political analysts just analyse things, they don’t necessarily change things,” she said. READ: Political analysts weigh in on Makhosi Khoza's 'new party' Khoza blasted opposition parties, saying that the Democratic Alliance is still viewed with suspicion. She said she doesn’t agree with the Economic Freedom Fighter’s radical policies, and that Cope had too many arrogant leaders who did not put people first. The way forward is to establish branches at grass-roots level, said Khoza. “We are going to be establishing branches in each area in South Africa hopefully. We are also going to be presenting a different narrative than the one that has been presented by political analysts,” she said. Khoza said she understood the scepticism around her decision to start a new party, but said people resist change if it comes from a woman. She said her party was full of young people who understood the liberation struggle but were forward-looking. She also spoke about the number of "phenomenal women" in her party. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  