Boipelo.Mere Omphemetse Segami (3) points to the now healing stab wound where he was injured with a knife. The attack had been directed at his mother. He and his four-year-old sister apparently tried to defend their mother from being stabbed by their father.  Photo: Boipelo Mere Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories During an argument between their parents in December, a three-year-old Galeshewe boy and his four-year-old sister tried to defend their mother from being stabbed with a knife in the neck by their father. The knife then struck the boy in the chest. After a similar incident on Friday, 20 January, the mother, Sharima Segami (36), ended up in the intensive care unit of the Kimberley Hospital Complex with 11 stab wounds, allegedly caused by her husband, Kagisho Eugen Segami (40). Kagisho was arrested by the Galeshewe police on the same day. Sgt Majang Skalkie of the police confirmed that on arrival at the crime scene, the police found a woman laying on the ground, bleeding, with stab wounds, and Kagisho was arrested. He appeared in court on 23 January on a charge of attempted murder. The boy, Omphemetse, has spoken about his shocking experience on the day in December he was injured with a knife to the chest. He said that he and his sister, Refilwe, had been defending their mother when their father attempted to stab her in the neck. The incident took place in Madiba Shack, also known as Nkandla, in Kimberley. At their grandparents’ home in John Daka, the toddlers bravely demonstrated how the knife had been moved from different spots on their mother’s neck. They also showed Express Northern Cape where the knife had hit the boy, causing the now healing stab wound on the three-year-old’s chest. According to the grandmother, Grace Swarts, that incident was only one of what they described as many abusive incidents that their daughter had suffered in her nine years of marriage. According to Grace, her daughter had been trying to end the relationship for the past two months. Grace was concerned that their daughter’s condition affected the family in a negative manner, as Sharima was the breadwinner. According to her, they did not know where to start their healing process. Sharima, who is a home-based caregiver, will be left wheelchair bound after the knife had hit her spinal cord, leading to swelling. Grace said the latest incident has traumatised her grandchildren to such an extend that they cannot stop talking about it. “I am also worried that her eldest son, who has become her pride since he is in matric this year, has started to deteriorate in his schoolwork due to this incident. “I received a letter from his school where the teacher recommended intervention,” said Grace. From her sickbed, Sharima expressed her wish to wheel her chair into the courtroom and ask the magistrate to deny her husband’s bail. “I want him to be locked up and for the key to be thrown far away. “I made it clear to him that it is over between us, but he refused to accept. “This was him – nearly fulfilling his promise to kill me,” she said in a weak voice. Kagisho’s case will continue on Wednesday (01/02).  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  