A pilot whale calf and his mother lie in shallow waters during a mass stranding at Farewell Spit, New Zealand. (Marty Melville, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Farewell Spit, New Zealand - Whale rescuers were cautiously
optimistic on Sunday that the current wave of mass beachings in New Zealand was
over, after hundreds of the creatures died after being stranded ashore. The crisis began early on Friday when a pod of 416 whales
were found stranded on the 26-kilometre Farewell Spit, with hundreds more
following them over the weekend. The shallow, sweeping spit is believed to interfere with the
whales' navigation systems and is a regular scene of mass strandings. As low tide approached early on Sunday evening, around 300
pilot whales were heading out of Golden Bay in the northwest of the South Island
and swimming towards the deep-water safety of Cook Strait. "It's good news. The pod is swimming well away,"
Department of Conservation regional conservation manager Andrew Lamason told
AFP. "They're the exact words," he added, when asked if
he was cautiously optimistic the crisis was over. "We've pulled our boats
out of the water." Hundreds of volunteers The news came as a relief for the hundreds of exhausted
volunteers, who had spent three days comforting the stranded animals and
keeping them cool while waiting to refloat them on the high tide. Late on Saturday afternoon, when rescuers believed the
situation to be under control, about 240 whales moved around a small flotilla
of boats and a human chain of rescuers standing in the water trying to herd
them away. They beached themselves about three kilometres from the
Friday stranding. By Sunday morning most had managed to refloat themselves and
at high tide volunteer workers were able to get the remaining animals back into
the water where boats were used to guide them towards the other survivors. Many volunteers gathered on the shoreline broke down in
tears on hearing the latest strandings appeared to be over. Louisa Hawkes, from the environmental group Project Jonah
which has been assisting with the rescue, told them it was only natural they
would feel emotionally drained. "The stranding might be winding down but the emotions
are still quite close to the surface. There have been some really hard
moments," she said. Lamason estimated 666 whales beached themselves "but
that will get the conspiracy theorists going", he added, referring to the
figure which is the reputed Biblical reference to the devil. Earthquake There were references on social media in New Zealand
suggesting the strandings and a 5.2-magnitude earthquake early on Sunday near
Kaikoura, which was severely damaged by a 7.8 earthquake in November, may have
been linked. Similar questions were raised in 2011 when 107 pilot whales
beached themselves on Stewart Island off the coast of the New Zealand mainland,
just two days before 185 people were killed in the Christchurch earthquake. However, scientists have dismissed this theory. "There's no strong evidence that strandings are linked
to earthquake events. For marine mammals these events are mostly
inconsequential to them," Auckland University marine biologist Rochelle
Constantine told the New Zealand Herald. "I think these whales just make a mistake." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  