Monica Laganparsad, News24 Lily Mine (AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - Lily Mine has cancelled its Sunday
remembrance service in honour of three mineworkers who died in a tragic mining
accident last year. On Thursday business rescue practitioner Rob Devereux said
management, in consultation with the families of the three mineworkers, had
agreed to postpone Sunday's service, saying a "blockade" had been
planned to disrupt the ceremony. Sunday marks the first anniversary of the disaster which
shut down the gold mine and sent it into business rescue. Devereux said: "There was an apolitical service planned
at the site of the accident. It was supposed to be religious. But due to
threats, we were told it was not safe to hold the service. We discussed it with
the families and they agreed we should postpone it." Workers have not been paid their salaries since last year
and hopes of an investor saving the mine with a cash injection of R200 million
are fading. Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU)
boss Joseph Mathunjwa said the union had cancelled its plans to hold a memorial
ceremony because the mine had already planned one. "I don't know what happened," he said. NUM hoping for bodies' recovery The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) earlier on Thursday
said it would not be part of the service because there was nothing to
commemorate since the bodies of the three mineworkers were still trapped
underground. "We have not lost hope that the miners should be
rescued from underground. So what are we commemorating? Are we commemorating
that those mineworkers are still trapped in the belly of the earth? "The people who are organising this kind of event are unreasonable
and they do not care. Shame unto them. We are not going to participate in this
event," said Joseph Montisetse, NUM deputy president. "We will make sure that those workers are rescued
whether they are alive or dead. We believe that God is great. For now, we
cannot speak about any commemoration and we are not going to be part of
it." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  