Kaveel Singh, News24(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; A KwaDabeka mother was left traumatised after seeing her daughter set alight by her ex-boyfriend. The 29-year-old woman survived the alleged attack and is now recovering.Thenjiwe Mtungwa on Wednesday described how her daughter, a mother of three, was attacked on January 11 after she broke up with her boyfriend, with whom she has a 3-year-old son."He was always fighting with her and hitting her. She eventually said enough is enough and broke up with him."Mtungwa said she was doing the laundry at her home in KwaDabeka when she heard shouting on the morning of the alleged attack."I went to see what was happening and found her burning. I did not realise what was happening and I almost passed out. Her body was pink. It was terrible."Mtungwa said her husband, who is a police captain, was angered by the incident."He is not happy at all. He wants this man caught."'He cannot be allowed to roam free'Mtungwa said she is living in fear of the man whose whereabouts are unknown."We want him to get caught because we are afraid for ourselves. We also want justice and want him to go to jail. He cannot be allowed to roam free."Mtungwa said her daughter was healing but in pain."She is speaking slowly but she is complaining of pain. I feel very bad about this. She is my only daughter."Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed the incident and said police were investigating a case of attempted murder."We are appealing to anyone who might have information about the whereabouts of the suspect to contact the local police or our Crime Stop number on 08600 10111."Mbhele said police were waiting for a warrant of arrest from court so they could publish the details of the alleged assailant.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.