Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories If Gerrie Nel's decision to join AfriForum was a long time coming, why did he resign from the NPA on 24-hours' notice? Speaking to News24 Nel explains his quick exit from the NPA.WATCHJohannesburg &ndash; A selection of quotes from some of the quirky and major stories of the past week."Look, all we sell here is paint." &ndash; Rolf Dahler, owner of the Port Elizabeth branch of Wondercoat Paint, when Netwerk24 asked him about 1 940 litres of Johnnie Walker Black Label whisky police found in 20-litre buckets of Wondercoat paint. They were in a shipping container destined for Saudi Arabia."I'm not embarrassed. I'm distressed and very angry. Something like this should have been avoided." &ndash; Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi reacting to the findings of an investigation that at least 94 mentally-ill patients died when the Gauteng health department moved them out of its care to unlicensed NGOs last year to cut costs."I won't sell my integrity and do something I don't believe in." &ndash; State prosecutor Gerrie Nel after suddenly resigning from the NPA to join AfriForum as head of its private prosecutions unit."In the normal world where normal people work&sbquo; people serve out their full month after handing in their resignation. They don't just up and leave. It just points to the character of a man who specialises in half-truths. In the normal world where I and many others work&sbquo; I certainly wouldn't employ someone of his character." &ndash; Convicted murderer Oscar Pistorius' uncle Arnold, quoted by TimesLIVE, reacting to Gerrie Nel's resignation."He has been so good to us and he really fought for justice for Reeva. He has become part of family." &ndash; Reeva Steenkamp's mother June commenting on Nel's resignation."What's the point of being near a school? What's the point of them being near transport? Where are they going to go?" - Western Cape High Court Judge Leslie Weinkove speaking during an application by 27 Woodstock residents, most of them unemployed, opposing the city's attempt to move them to Wolwerivier, 28km outside the city."People crying over Gerrie Nel like he's run off with all of the stokvel money." &ndash; Tweet by Baps Maponyane &rlm;@shagggz .People crying over Gerrie Nel like he's run off with all of the stokvel money pic.twitter.com/qx3WaFVCtk 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.