News24 Correspondent  Evan Mawarire (File: AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - That picture of Zimbabwe protest
pastor Evan Mawarire reading his Bible as he was driven off in a police truck
last week? 

 Fellow activist Patson Dzamara said it left him
"heartbroken" - and it will have touched a chord in more than a few
Zimbabweans' hearts. 

 #ThisFlag founder Mawarire was granted bail on Wednesday afternoon
by the Harare High Court (though he will only be released from jail on Thursday,
according to lawyers). Mawarire won the trust of many last year with his
obvious faith, his refusal to side with a single opposition party and his
insistence on non-violent methods of protest. 

 Whether he can regain that trust after disappearing into exile
and then returning unexpectedly six months later still remains to be seen.
Social media in Zimbabwe seems to be warming up to him.  

 Here are five things you may not know about Mawarire: Marriage counsellor  Well before he launched #ThisFlag, Mawarire wrote two books giving advice for married couples. MC for ruling party wedding Along with his church work, Mawarire was a well-known master of
ceremonies in and around Harare. He
was notably MC at the wedding of Higher Education Minister (and former
information minister) Jonathan Moyo's daughter in 2014. Chair recipient Supa Mandiwanzira is the IT minister who first clashed with
Mawarire following a much-publicised interview on the minister's ZiFM radio
station last May. Mandiwanzira
has said that he once donated chairs to Mawarire's His Generation church in the
Zimbabwean capital. Nominated for a freedom of expression prize Mawarire has just been nominated for an Index on Censorship
Freedom of Expression award (there will be winners in four categories). The timing of the announcement of
this nomination may not do the pastor any favours: President Robert Mugabe's
government is likely to see it as evidence that he is sponsored by the West.  Three daughters   The most recent addition to the Mawarire family was a baby girl
born in the US in November. The fact of his wife's pregnancy may have partly
motivated his decision to take his family into exile in July. He has two older girls and has
previously said that his inability to raise school fees for them was the
driving force behind the first protest video he posted to Facebook. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  