James de Villiers, News24 The abused Pit Bull Daisy-Mae when Mdzananda Animal Clinic in Khayelitsha siezed the dog (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; An abused pit bull used for breeding has found its forever home in Johannesburg after a video appeal was posted on social media.The dog was rescued by an animal clinic in Khayelitsha."A friend of mine had shared a video. I opened it [and] as soon as it started to play I was in love. I knew the little girl with the crazy ears needed me. What I didn't realise at the time was how much I needed her," Daisy-Mae's new owner Monique Qu&eacute;net said.&nbsp; The pit bull was malnutritioned and had four puppies when Mdzananda Animal Clinic rescued her. Two of the puppies have since died.Fundraising and communications manager Marcelle du Plessis said the clinic had attempted to educate and work with the owner but this had failed."She was a broken soul. She did not understand what we were trying to do when we stroked her or spoke gently to her," Du Plessis said.&nbsp; "She spent most of her initial weeks with us sleeping tightly curled up to try to protect herself from the world."Daisy-Mae stayed at the Mdzananda Animal Clinic for seven months.Trust earned over time"Bit by bit she started trusting humans and made friends with the staff, following them around the hospital. She engaged in play with the other dogs, found shady spots to sleep in the garden and enjoyed chewing on hoofs. Her weight increased and she grew healthy and fit."&nbsp;Du Plessis said the video appeal was made because the clinic struggled to find Daisy-Mae a new home."Towards the end of her time at Mdzananda she fell into a deep depression from being in a kennel for so long," she said.&nbsp;Qu&eacute;net said&nbsp;Daisy-Mae was flown to Johannesburg two weeks after she watched the video. "It took a lot of time and patience to earn this girl's trust. One day when I got home from work, instead of being looked at with suspicion, I got a happy dance. Daisy-Mae was excited to see me," Qu&eacute;net said.&nbsp;Qu&eacute;net said Daisy-Mae now loves children, being touched and posing for photos. &nbsp;"I am pretty sure she has it in her head that her role in life is to show every person that pit bulls are the most lovable, misrepresented dogs on earth," Qu&eacute;net said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.