Malherbe Nienaber, Netwerk24 James Dalton at a previous court appearance in Pretoria. (File, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Former Springbok rugby player James Dalton is back in court again – this time in Cape Town, on charges of assault, intimidation, and resisting arrest.  Dalton, 44, was arrested in Sea Point on Thursday and spent the weekend behind bars. He would appear in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court on Monday, Netwerk24 reported. Western Cape police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said she could not give more details about the merits of the case, or who the victims or complainants were, because Dalton had not appeared in court yet.    According to Rapport, Dalton was involved in an altercation with police at the scene of an accident in Main Road, in which he was involved, on Thursday night.  He had apparently been driving his girlfriend Claire Thome’s “brand new BMW” at the time. Police questioned him just after 20:00. “Dalton apparently lost his rag, pointed his finger at the police officer and yelled he was a ‘fucking racist’,” Rapport reported. Brushes with the law Dalton (who is also known as “Bullet”) played for the ‘Boks from 1994 to 2002. He was suspended for a while after being involved in an incident during the 1995 Rugby World Cup. He took part in the TV series Strictly Come Dancing.    It was not the first time Dalton had been arrested. He had appeared in court in Pretoria on several occasions. In June 2010, it was reported that a charge of attempted murder involving his former wife Andrea was withdrawn in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court after they reached a settlement.  Dalton was accused of trying to suffocate her in a bath in November 2007. He was also charged with assault.  In 2008, Dalton claimed R1.2m from then police minister Charles Nqakula for wrongful arrest.  That year, the Community Court in Hatfield, Pretoria, found him not guilty on a charge of firing a weapon in a public place and malicious damage to property. He was alleged to have fired shots at a car opposite the Menlyn Park mall. In 2001, News24 reported that Dalton and his brother-in-law faced three charges of assault for allegedly attacking a Meyerton businessman and his family. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  