Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. (Elizabeth Sejake) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories It was a rough start to the week for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma &ndash; for all the wrong reasons.Her attempt to win over amaXhosa King Mpendulo Zwelonke Sigcawu during a visit to the Nqadu Great Place on Tuesday backfired when the monarch told her: &ldquo;South Africa is not yet ready to be led by a woman president. "Women are sensitive by nature. The country&rsquo;s problems have overwhelmed leaders who are men, how much more for a woman?&rdquo;The village men, of course, were thrilled and enthusiastically voiced their approval.Then, on Thursday, the king&rsquo;s little brother, Prince Xhanti Sigcawu, tried to make things better, but instead made them worse. He told News24 Dlamini-Zuma may be too &ldquo;delicate&rdquo; to lead. &ldquo;Men have been struggling with the job ... This was not directed purely at Dlamini-Zuma, it&rsquo;s to all women,&rdquo; he said.Wooo shem!It is clear we live in a two-stream society where different rules and standards apply to women in rural and urban areas.&ldquo;Luxuries&rdquo; such as women&rsquo;s rights to equal treatment remain the preserve of those in cities.And the ANC-led government is helping to entrench this.The justice ministry has twice tried to table the deeply flawed Traditional Courts Bill, which would see women&rsquo;s access to justice in rural areas determined by the say-so of her chief. This has been seen as a thinly veiled attempt by the party to win support from the chiefs, a key party constituency.When they tabled it recently for a third time, it was amended to allow rural residents who don&rsquo;t recognise the customary system to opt out of it.Although touted as a major victory for the nongovernmental organisations who fought the bill in its previous forms, it remains to be seen whether the amakhosi will recognise a woman&rsquo;s right not to be judged by them and refuse to subject to their rule.So, it was a good thing that Dlamini-Zuma&rsquo;s week got off to a bad start. Perhaps now she will know how rural women feel.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.