Nicole.JohnTHE general rule is to acknowledge a problem exists and then only can there be a solution. Ford has not concluded the investigation that claimed the life of Reshall Jimmy when his Ford Kuga caught alight claiming his life. This incident happened in December 2015 and has still to be concluded. Ford in their preliminary findings have stated the fire started in the boot of the vehicle.This is a totally absurd assertion as cell phone footage shows no fire at the back of the vehicle. The huge flames were spewing out from the dashboard section of the Kuga. The police report investigation concluded that the fire started from below the dashboard on the front passenger side.An independent investigator by the name of Anthony Young made similar findings about the origin of the fire, yet Ford is disputing these findings. A disturbing aspect of this incident is that Ford did not immediately implement a total recall of all Ford Kugas in South Africa putting the lives of other Kuga drivers in danger. A total of 37 other Ford Kugas went up in flames yet there was minimal action taken by Ford. A situation like this would never be allowed to take place in a European country.Once again could it be a case of Ford abusing our ineffective laws and manipulating the system. Could it be that South African lives are not important.A riveting question asked on Checkpoint is whether Ford is using our incompetent laws to their advantage at the expense of the South African consumer.Any company that disregards the welfare and safety of their clients can never be trusted. Putting profits ahead of safety considerations of the consumer can be detrimental to the continued existence of any business.The way forward would be for the Ford Company to accept responsibility for the fire that caused the death of Mr Reshall in lieu of the video footage and other evidence from Kuga owners that portrays the company in a negative light.A joint lawsuit of the affected Kuga owners is imminent. To save the brand Ford needs to settle out of court. The longer these devastating incidents remain in the spotlight the greater will the reputational attack on the company will be.Ford needs to pick up the pieces knowing they have erred in their mechanics when manufacturing the Kuga. They need to meet with their highly paid engineers to rectify the problem thereby making sure that a recurrence is never allowed to repeat itself. Condolences to the Reshall family on the loss of their beloved one. We patiently await the conclusion of this saga.Vijay Surujpal via emailA riveting question asked on Checkpoint is whether Ford is using our incompetent laws to their advantage at the expense of the South African consumer. Any company that disregards the welfare and safety of their clients can never be trusted24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.