Bridget.Siebert1THE recent increase in house robberies and break-ins has become a major cause of concern for Hilton residents.In a meeting with the Hilton community the ward seven councillor Craig Millar urged the residents to be more hands-on when it comes to combating crime. The criminals have evolved so we must also evolve, Millar said. According to Millar, the sharing of information via WhatsApp groups and other social media platforms has a positive effect in combating crime. However, more residents should subscribe and support the various crime prevention initiatives in the area.Hilton Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Mduduzi Mjwara said the increase in crime could be attributed to factors such as the increase in construction and contract building developments, which leads to an explosion of people coming in and out of the area . Mjwara said poor street lighting and vacant plots could also be a contributor to the recent increase in crime.According to Mjwara, criminals have become more aggressive. They don t care whether you are home or not, Mjwara said. Mjwara added that the community must play their part in combating crime in the area. As much as we depend on the police we also need to make sure that as a community we are doing everything possible to ensure that we are safe, Mjwara saidDave Stewart from the Hilton Street Hawks security initiative said the decrease in crime over the years has made some residents complacent when it comes to security. According to Stewart, the Hilton Street Hawks patrol 24 hours a day. If the guards spot something suspicious they call the armed response vehicle, Stewart said. However, it has become difficult for the Street Hawks to combat crime because of a lack of support from the community. Stewart said at some point the Street Hawks had about 14 to 20 people working in the area. At the moment they have only six. We have the bare minimum, Stewart said.Mike Crabtree from the Winterskloof Tactical Surveillance Unit said they rely on intelligence to combat crime. It is very important for people to notify us if they see something suspicious, Crabtree said. Crabtree added that if they had 100% support from the community they would be able to do a better job in combating crime.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.