Kalisha.Naicker AS a child, Upper Highway resident Sandra Marques Ferreira loved animals, so when she heard that Debbie Smith from Safe Gas was looking for volunteers to assist at the K9 Shongweni unit,she leapt at the opportunity.This small group of women known as the Friends of K9 Shongweni is where Ferreira spends her free time caring for the four-legged friends from the unit and learnt about some of the challenges they face. It broke my heart when I learnt that after a long day s work, these dogs have to come home to an old bed, as we know that our pups love sleeping on the couch or on our bed. I adopted my Rottweiler Max, from Friend of the Rottweiler Rescue &amp; Re-home South Africa, which was founded by Samantha Laing Jacobs, I told her about the K9 Unit that I was involved in. She was amazed by the volunteer work the ladies and I carry out there asked if she could assist. I mentioned it would be amazing if we could get the dogs new beds to sleep on, said Ferreira.A few days later Jacobs called her and said she had secured Coolaroo South Africa to sponsor the dog beds for the Shongweni K9 Unit. My heart leaped with joy. This was the most amazing news I have had, and I am grateful to Jacobs and to Coolaroo South Africa for this sponsorship, she said. The Shongweni K9 Unit has done incredible work and achieved so much in keeping our streets safe. While we dream of every dog living on a couch, we know that only a select few are able to carry out this tough work. Thank you Coolaroo South Africa for making this dream a reality for the K9s, and knowing after a long day or night s work they can sleep on the best beds in South Africa. Ferreira also thanked the Friend of the Rottweiler Rescue &amp; Re-Home South Africa (DBN) for the delivery and assembly of the Coolaroo SA dog beds. I also thank the K9 Shongweni Unit for the incredible work they do by putting their lives as well as their K9s lives on the line to keep our community safe - we are truly blessed with such a wonderful, dynamic and successful team. If you would like to support the Shongweni K9, WhatsApp Smith on 074 187 7325. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.