IN celebration of Pregnancy Education Week hosted nationally from February 19 to 25, the Baby Lounge and the Healthy Mom and Baby Clinic in Jeffreys Bay have teamed up to host a special event for all pregnant women and their partners on February 25.Keeping in line with this year s theme, The perfect dance of birth hormones - our amazing birthing body working in perfect synchronicity, the speakers at the event are Dr Clayton Grieve (Gynaecologist and Obstetrician), Sr Margreet Wibbelink (Advanced Midwife), Sr Leisle van Vliet (Registered Nurse and Midwife), Dr. Natasha Wepener (Naturopath) and two experienced moms, Jenna van der Westhuizen and Rone van Niekerk. If I can help one mother at a time, I have reached so much, says event host, Sr Leisle van Vliet, owner of the Baby Lounge in Oosterland Street, Jeffreys Bay. The Baby Lounge is a private breastfeeding and baby clinic focusing on the new mom and baby. The aim of her clinic is to form a reliable and holistic relationship with each new mom and assist her by conti-nuously educating her on her baby s development and growth. As a SACLC student, breastfeeding is my passion. Support is vital to every new mother, as this can be the diffe-rence between a happy long lasting breastfeeding road or giving up. As an international qualified Infant Massage Instructor, I believe in the miracle of touch and its benefits. I give regular classes to teach this amazing lifelong gift to mothers. Wibbelink has been a midwife for many years and has been educating pregnant couples in Jeffreys Bay since 2004. I found that the birthing culture was infused with fear and wrong perceptions. My mission was to turn that around and empower women so that birth and beyond would be something to look forward to and provide them with evidence-based information in order to make informed choices about their birth, says Wibbelink. Six reasons to attend childbirth education classesThe event will take place at J-Bay Bru Co. at 10 Da Gama Road in Jeffreys Bay from 09:00 to 11:00 on Saturday, Fe-bruary 25. Tickets cost R30 per person.Various lucky draws, including a pregnancy photo shoot, will be up for grabs.For bookings or more information, contact Rosie Joubert at 042 293 1952 or info@hmbc.co.za. Bookings for the event close on February 22.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.