Firefighters in Australia. (File, Evan Collis, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Sydney - Eastern Australia was bracing for severe "off
the scale" fire conditions on Sunday as it baked in a heatwave that has
broken temperature records and sparked dire warnings from authorities. While bushfires are common in Australia's arid summer,
climate change has pushed up land and sea temperatures and led to more
extremely hot days and severe fire seasons. "The conditions for Sunday are the worst possible
conditions when it comes to fire danger ratings," New South Wales (NSW)
state Rural Fire Service Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons told reporters on Friday. "They are catastrophic, they are labelled catastrophic
for a reason, they are rare, they are infrequent, and to put it simply, they
are off the old conventional scale. "It's not another summer's day. It's not another bad
fire weather day. This is as bad as it gets in these circumstances." Fires Fitzsimmons said on Sunday afternoon several homes may have
been lost in bushfires across the state, but there were no reports as yet of
injuries to firefighters or residents. Further north in Queensland, the Bureau of Meteorology said numerous
February temperature records were being broken across the state as the mercury
soared above 40 degrees Celsius. Temperature records were also breached across NSW on
Saturday, the weather bureau said. Cooler conditions were forecast to come through later
Sunday, although "still large areas above 40C", it added. Rainfall down Australia has warmed by approximately 1.0 C since 1910,
according to the biannual State of the Climate report from the Bureau of
Meteorology and national science body CSIRO released in October. The number of days each year that post temperatures of more
than 35C was increasing in recent decades except in northern Australia, the
report said. Meanwhile, rainfall has reduced by 19 percent between May to
July in southwestern Australia since 1970. "Black Saturday", the worst firestorm in recent
years, devastated the southern state of Victoria in 2009, razing thousands of
homes and killing 173 people. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  