Thandolwethu WolfFrom the left are Lt.Col Joyce Nhlapo, Sgt Tsholo Mosiane and Sgt Josephine Johnson, displaying four of the five dagga packets reportedly discovered in a learner s bag at the Louis Botha THS during a raid on Wednesday (15/02). Photo: Supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Two learners of the Louis Botha Technical High School (THS) in Bloemfontein are in trouble after the police discovered a knife and dagga during a raid at the school on Wednesday (15/02) in five classes of Gr. 10, Gr. 11 and Gr. 12, respectively. Capt. Chaka Marope, Park Road police cluster spokesperson, said the classes in question had been identified by the school safety coordinator as problematic after finding out that some learners had a reputation for carrying dangerous weapons to school and doing drugs. Bearing evidence to the concern over the learners bad reputation, the police discovered a knife in the bag of one learner and dagga in possession of the other culprit. Marope said the dagga had been put into five tiny plastic packets. The culprits are in Gr. 12. Both learners were reported to the school principal and disciplinary actions in terms of the school regulations will be taken against them, he said.Marope said the raid conducted by the Park Road cluster and the K-9 members were also part of crime prevention to create a crime-free learning environment at the schools. The raid was aimed at maintaining a culture of safety and learning at the schools. It was also part of the police crime prevention and drug awareness to educate the learners about the negative impact of dabbling in drugs and to deter drug activities, he said. Sgt Tsholo Mosiane, Adopt-A-Cop coordinator, added that the raid had also been part of the programme to safeguard learners in schools. It is not only about searches, it is educational, as the police educate them about their safety. Sakkie Matthee, the school safety officer, described the raid as one of its kind at the school and added that more raids would follow if there was a need in future.Thabang Morobane, chairperson of the School Governing Body (SGB), said it was a major problem that the school is located within an area of the Willows suburb, where drugs and alcoholic substances are accessible to the learners. In the area concerned, not far from the school, a number of outlets selling fast food and alcohol are found. No less than three pubs, adjacent to each other, playing loud music and selling alcoholic substances, can be found in Willows in Ella Street, linking with Park Road. The learners are usually found hanging around these fast food outlets. This is also because of the unlimited Wi-Fi hot-spot. The police coming to the school in so many vans to raid was uncalled for. Disciplinary action will be taken against the two learners and the school governing body will see to the effective disciplining of the two learners, said Morobane. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.