Iavan Pijoos and Nation Nyoka, News24A rescue worker descending into the mine shaft where a 5-year-old boy went missing. (Iavan Pijoos, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The rescue operation for a 5-year-old boy who fell into an empty mine shaft in Jerusalem, an informal settlement outside Boksburg, on Saturday has been suspended.Speaking on Monday evening, Ekurhuleni emergency services acting spokesperson Vincent Khoza said the rescue operation would resume on Tuesday morning.&nbsp;"The rescue operation was called off at 19:30 because it's dark and it's very unsafe," Khoza said.Mine rescue services attempted to go down the mine shaft but toxic gas and poor light hampered efforts to reach the bottom. &nbsp;Residents who watched the rescue mission all day hoping that the boy would be found were disappointed by the suspension of the rescue operation.Earlier, a drone was used to fly over the area to assess the stability of the ground.Fell while playingKhoza said when the rescue team went down on Sunday there was no sign of the child.On Monday morning locals flocked to the shaft. They stood nearby watching and waiting for any news. Some sang gospel songs, while others drank beer.The boy fell into the hole sometime between 12:00 and 13:00 on Saturday.Rescue South Africa helped with the operation, but the rescue was called off later that day due to the instability of the ground.The boy's family said they last saw him when he went to play with friends, Khoza said."When we went to his mother, she said he went out to play. One of his friends told us that he fell into the shaft."Residents then alerted emergency services.The Jerusalem community gathered around the empty mine hole where the boy is believed to have fell on Sat @News24 pic.twitter.com/qSBFqOxpaIThe disused shaft in Jerusalem, Boksburg where a 5-year-old is trapped.@News24 pic.twitter.com/18qE7N6SxD&mdash; Iavan Pijoos (@Iavan13) February 27, 2017The disused shaft in Jerusalem, Boksburg where a 5-year-old is trapped.@News24 pic.twitter.com/18qE7N6SxDMines Rescue use a remote control camera to search for the trapped 5-year-old in Jerusalem, Boksburg. @News24 pic.twitter.com/zupPr2ZZI2&mdash; Iavan Pijoos (@Iavan13) February 27, 2017The rescue operation for the trapped 5-year-old in Jerusalem, Boksburg is currently underway. @News24 pic.twitter.com/57sW9KXT9y&mdash; Iavan Pijoos (@Iavan13) February 27, 2017Mines Rescue use a remote control camera to search for the trapped 5-year-old in Jerusalem, Boksburg. @News24 pic.twitter.com/zupPr2ZZI2&mdash; Iavan Pijoos (@Iavan13) February 27, 2017The rescue operation for the trapped 5-year-old in Jerusalem, Boksburg is currently underway. @News24 pic.twitter.com/57sW9KXT9y24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.