Mbongiseni MasekoSolly Mapaila, the second deputy general secretary of South African Communist Party (SACP), Moipone Sam, principal, Councillor Nkululeko Mgolombane and learners during the handover of shoes at Intsebenziswano High School in Philippi on Thursday. PHOTO: Mbongiseni MASEKO Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Intsebenziswano High School learners in Philippi have received a donation of about 22 pairs of shoes from members of the communist party on Thursday.The shoes were handed over by Solly Mapaila, the Second Deputy General Secretary of the South African Communist Party (SACP).Mapaila said the SACP took the decision to adopt the school to ensure that learners get the support they need to pass with flying colours.. We adopted the school to give support to the educators and to ensure that learning runs smoothly. We have noticed inequality still persists in education in the country. Schools in rural areas and in townships do not have all necessary support as opposed to schools for the wealthy. We want matric learners here to pass with high marks so they will be able to get admission in universities. Without education you will never succeed. You must love your books, Mapaila said.He advised learners to choose their career paths wisely.Mapaila told learners to focus on their studies so they will rise above the poverty line. It is not embarrassing to be a leaner coming from a disadvantaged background. Capitalism is the reason why your parents are still suffering. You can change that situation when you focus on books, he added.He also said they have committed to raise funds to assist the school and to ensure that Grade 12 learners get support to attend extra classes.Benson Ngqentsu, the secretary of the SACP in the Brian Bunting District, said they adopted the school so that it would be exemplary in the Western Cape in terms of discipline and the pass rate. Ngqentsu said the learners who benefited were chosen by teachers. Moipone Sam, the school principal thanked the SACP for the donation. We would like to thank you for the gift. It is surely going to make a difference in their lives. We thank you for working with us in building the future of the learners, Sam said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.