Greek Army officers conduct preparation work before they excavate an unexploded World War II bomb found five metres deep, in Thessaloniki, Greece. (Giannis Papanikos, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Thessaloniki - Authorities in the northern Greek city of
Thessaloniki evacuated an estimated 75 000 people on Sunday so army experts
could defuse a 227kg unexploded World War II bomb found under a petrol station. The evacuation started at 07:00 (05:00 GMT). Police went
house-to-house ringing bells and knocking on doors to remind people living
within a 1.9km radius, mostly in the western suburb of Kordelio, to leave their
homes. Bomb disposal experts started work at 11:30, 90 minutes
later than planned, but defused the bomb in only 30 minutes, Central Macedonia
governor Apostolos Tzizikostas announced. The bomb was now going to be taken to an army firing range. 'Total success' "The first phase of the bomb disposal has been a total
success," Tzizikostas announced. "There remains its removal from the
site. Residents will still not be allowed in their homes, because the removal
and transport contains dangers." Many people left the area in their cars, but some were bussed
to schools and sports halls elsewhere in the city. "We heard on TV that, if the bomb explodes, it will be
like a strong earthquake," a worried Michalis Papanos, 71, told The
Associated Press as he and his wife, Yiannoula, headed out of their home. Others, like 26-year-old Alexander Bogdani and his wife,
Anna Bokonozi, left on foot. The couple, pushing a stroller with their toddler
daughter, were going to a place about 1km from their home. "They have warned us ... we are afraid for the
child," Bogdani said. Shutdown The city's main bus station was shut down, trains in the
area were halted and churches cancelled their Sunday services. The city also
booked a 175-room hotel where people with limited mobility and their escorts
were taken on Saturday. "This is the largest population move in peacetime.
People must be calm and not panic," Central Macedonia governor Apostolos
Tzitzikostas said. Among the evacuees were 450 refugees staying at a former
factory, who were transported by bus to visit the city's archaeological museum. Army bomb disposal experts will attempt to defuse the bomb's
detonator, and then transport it to an army firing range, where they will
figure out what further steps to take, said army spokesperson Colonel Nikos
Fanios. One resident says he recalls the day the bomb fell. "The bombing was done by English and American planes on
September 17, 1944. It was Sunday lunchtime," said Giorgos Gerasimou, 86,
whose home is half a mile away. The Allies were targeting local German rail facilities, he
said. Nazi Germany occupied Greece from 1941 until October 1944. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  