Tammy Petersen, News24Sea Point workers protest outside the Western Cape Department of Public Works offices in Cape Town. (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - Joane Louw has worked in Sea Point for 31 years and sees herself as part of the community. But a lack of lower-income housing means she will never be able to own a home in the sought-after suburb as she does not earn enough to afford property there. Dept of Transport and Public Works have locked their building doors as @ReclaimCT protesters stand at the entrance. pic.twitter.com/SOmxf41R5M&mdash; Tammy Petersen (@TammyPetersen87) February 1, 2017Dept of Transport and Public Works have locked their building doors as @ReclaimCT protesters stand at the entrance. pic.twitter.com/SOmxf41R5MLouw was part of the group which gathered outside the department's offices on Dorp Street on Wednesday afternoon, where staff locked the doors as the protesters lined up on the pavement. "I have lived in Sea Point for many, many years. At one point I moved away and spent a fortune on travelling, then I decided to move back. I know this place &ndash; I haven't been here since yesterday. This is my home too," she said. She pays R3 000 rent for the flat she and her daughter, 10, stay in. Others, she said, live in quarters on their employers' properties. Years-long struggle Her dream is to finally buy her own home in the suburb. "There is a piece of land to accommodate us. Why can't we also be close to where we work? A low-cost development means people like me who don't earn big salaries can also own a house." In a statement read by a representative of the organisation, it said its supporters had "worked tirelessly" to complete a community submission, which included feedback from Sea Point residents and low-income earners. Their submission was delivered to the department on Monday, which was the original deadline. "The submission's demands were endorsed by over 700 people online and at Reclaim the City's #Tafelberg270 Rally for Affordable Housing at the Sea Point promenade on Sunday," it said. The two-week extension was an unnecessary delay to a final decision, the group said. "Sea Point's domestic workers and other black and coloured low-income earners have struggled for many years for decent, affordable, state-subsidised housing in their home community," it said. "They have waited patiently and engaged constructively during the unfolding process towards [the] province's decision on whether the Tafelberg site would be reserved for affordable housing. But their patience is now running thin." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.