Nicole JohnPHOTO:suppliedShana-lee van der Byl made Pietermaritzburg proud when she scooped the top honour in hairdressing at the Worlds Skills Competition that took place at the Durban ICC last week. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories SHANA-LEE van der Byl made Pietermaritzburg proud when she scooped the top honour in hairdressing at the Worlds Skills Competition that took place at the Durban ICC last week.Van der Byl was awarded the gold medal in the hairdressing section of the week-long competition, outwitting and out-styling her competitors that came from around the country, all of whom were in their third or fourth year of apprenticeship.She has just completed her first year of apprenticeship at Blu Gel in Pietermaritzburg and is in her second year. The competition was everything I could have ever wished for. It was an intense atmosphere and being up against more experienced competitors was something I took in my stride and didn t let get to me. I had to up my game a few times at the competition to ensure that my work was taken seriously and that I continued to get good scores by the judges.I stayed up late and practised my styles and I think this is what kept me calm during the competition, she said.Van der Byl said that she did not know what she was expected to produce at the beginning of the competition but as she trained, she quickly picked up the requirements and then worked on perfecting them.On being crowned the winner at the competition, Van der Byl said that she was so thrilled and honoured to have been recognised for her skills at such a young age and so early in her career. This was the first competition that I have taken part in; it was my time to shine. It was the best experience ever and it pushed me to learn more and better my career. The best part was that I was just being me. I kept true to myself. My Blu Gel family were my biggest support during the competition. Shantal [Beneke] took my skills and she perfected them and I am truly grateful to her for her support and teaching. I am going back to work and am going to take the skills that I learnt during my time at the competition to make me a better hairdresser. I will qualify from Blu Gel. They have done so much for me, said Van der Byl.Van der Byl now goes on to take part at an international level of the World Skills Competition in Abu Dhabi in October.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.