Jeanette Chabalala, News24Mark Warona Zinde, son of Hope Zinde, appears in the Brits Regional Court (Jeanette Chabalala, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Brits &ndash; The case against the son of murdered television personality Hope Zinde is expected to be transferred to the High Court in Pretoria on Tuesday.Mark Warona Zinde, 23, is expected to appear in the Brits Regional Court, where a high court date will likely be announced.His lawyer Francois Joubert told News24 on Monday that Zinde's murder and assault cases would be centralised in the high court. &nbsp;Zinde allegedly assaulted his father Lebohang Mohale Manoto on November 6. This after he was released on R10 000 bail after allegedly killing his mother.He is facing a charge of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. The matter was heard in the Veereniging Magistrate's Court. &nbsp;However, during his last appearance in the Brits Regional Court, Joubert argued that Zinde suffers from schizophrenia, a severe long-term mental health condition.Joubert asked the court that Zinde be re-admitted to Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital in Pretoria. Zinde was sent there in June for assessments and a report was finalised. &nbsp;In order to dispute the report, the defence appointed Dr John Weinkove, a psychiatrist, to assess Zinde's mental state. Weinkove differed with the &ldquo;Review of Condition&rdquo; Dr Coetzee at Weskoppies compiled."I believe Zinde suffers from schizophrenia with predominantly negative features. I recommend that he should be re-admitted to Weskoppies for a review of his condition," Weinkove said in a statement Joubert had read to the court.According to Weinkove's statement, Zinde stopped functioning socially about four years ago. This suggested the onset of his mental illness.He recommended a computed tomography (CAT scan) of Zinde&rsquo;s brain and an electroencephalogram (EEG).He said there appeared to be a history of similar illness in his father's family. His mother was described as having mood swings, which could point to susceptibility to schizophrenia.Zinde was arrested in June 2016, after his 50-year-old mother's body was found in the boot of her Range Rover at her home in Pecanwood Estate, Hartbeespoort.At the time, it was reported that a friend had struggled to get hold of her for a few days and that her son had refused to open the door. He only opened it when police arrived.Prosecutor Hanna Conradie argued that four other psychiatrists had already evaluated Zinde at Weskoppies. All of them had found he had criminal capacity and could distinguish between right and wrong and follow court proceedings.Magistrate Lourens Matthee said Zinde was fit to stand trial and rejected the request for Zinde to be re-admitted to Weskoppies.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.