Iavan Pijoos, News24Johannesburg &ndash; Former Hawks spokesperson McIntosh Polela tweeted on Sunday that his father had allegedly "unloaded a gun" on his family."My father, who occupied many pages in my book, unloaded a gun to his family, shot his youngest son through the mouth &amp; missed everyone else," he tweeted.On Monday morning, Polela told News24 that it was not a good time to speak.My father, who occupied many pages in my book, unloaded a gun to his family, shot his youngest son through the mouth &amp; missed everyone else&mdash; McIntosh Polela (@toshpolela) February 19, 2017My father, who occupied many pages in my book, unloaded a gun to his family, shot his youngest son through the mouth &amp; missed everyone elseIn his book, My father, My monster, former journalist Polela traces how he and his little sister Zinhle were left in the care of impoverished relatives. He later learns that his father was allegedly responsible for his mother's death.He said on Sunday that his father had been arrested."He tried to shoot one of the sons point blank, but the stolen gun he used had run out of ammo. He's now in police custody.""Thank goodness he's a bad shot, otherwise his wife and three of his sons would be no more." He tried to shoot one of the sons point blank, but the stolen gun he used had run out of ammo. He's now in police custodyThank goodness he's a bad shot, otherwise his wife and three of his sons would be no more&mdash; McIntosh Polela (@toshpolela) February 19, 2017Thank goodness he's a bad shot, otherwise his wife and three of his sons would be no moreTwitter users reacted to the tweet with support for Polela, with one saying his father must "finally pay", while another said he hoped Polela was doing OK.May he finally pay for everything he's done. https://t.co/QsxhExPzRK&mdash; Oprah Morisson (@thabisobonita) February 19, 2017May he finally pay for everything he's done. https://t.co/QsxhExPzRK@toshpolela good lord! Are you ok Mac?&mdash; Palesa Morudu (@palesa_morudu) February 19, 2017@toshpolela good lord! Are you ok Mac?24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.