Abram MashegoPresident Jacob Zuma (Photo: GCIS) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johanessburg - President Jacob Zuma&rsquo;s chief protector, King Ngcobo, has been accused of submitting a fake matric certificate before being appointed head of VIP protection services.Ngcobo, also referred to by his clan name, Mapholoba, is known to be a &ldquo;Zuma man&rdquo; within the intelligence circles and the SA Police Service (SAPS).He was promoted to the post, despite not having the required NQF Level 6. It was one of the stipulated requirements when the post was advertised.City Press has obtained documents which reveal that during the screening process, warrant officer MK Mate refused to tick the box indicating whether Ngcobo had passed matric and possessed the necessary qualifications.Instead, Mate wrote: &ldquo;Panel to see.&rdquo; Ngcobo submitted a matric certificate which many within the SAPS alleged was fake.Two sources within the police service said there was an investigation into Ngcobo&rsquo;s qualifications, but it was later abandoned before completion. Alarm bells were also raised when he claimed on his CV to have joined the SAPS in March 1995 as a constable, but also passed Standard 10 (now Grade 12) at Swelihle High School in Umlazi that same year.It is alleged that he could not explain if he was studying part-time or studying through correspondence while undergoing police training. In the handwritten government employment form, he also allegedly contradicted himself by stating that he passed Standard 10 in 1982. Ngcobo is a former crime intelligence officer. In 2009, he became the team leader for Zuma&rsquo;s presidential protection services. He was later promoted to section head of VIP protection before being appointed the national head in July 2016. This week, he admitted to being aware of his reputation as a Zuma man, saying people were jealous of his appointment and had gone as far as bewitching him. The 52-year-old is now responsible for overseeing the protection and security of the president, as well as the country&rsquo;s ministers, premiers and MECs. On Wednesday, Ngcobo insisted he had a matric certificate and referred City Press to police spokesperson Brigadier Sally de Beer for confirmation. &ldquo;This matter is an employer/employee relationship issue and the department is not prepared to converse via the media,&rdquo; De Beer responded when approached for comment. &ldquo;The allegation will be dealt with internally according to prescripts.&rdquo; However, on Friday Ngcobo engaged the services of a popular public relations practitioner to convince City Press that he indeed had a matric certificate, in an effort to prevent us from publishing this article.City Press advised Ngcobo, through the practitioner, to produce a copy of the certificate. Since then, Ngcobo has no longer been reachable on his phone.The allegations against him come in the wake of the axing of former acting crime intelligence head Chris Ngcobo, who was found to have &ldquo;consistently lied&rdquo; about his matric credentials. This prompted the then national police commissioner Riah Phiyega, now suspended, to suspend him.Chris Ngcobo was involved in a 2015 investigation into Phiyega, which resulted in her being accused of defeating the ends of justice, after she was allegedly caught on a wiretap informing suspended Western Cape commissioner Arno Lamoer about a probe implicating him in corruption. In a letter written by Phiyega, she said Chris Ngcobo&rsquo;s suspension and subsequent dismissal did not emanate from his lack of qualifications, but rather, from the fact that he falsely stated to the security clearance authority &ndash; and not the SAPS &ndash; that he had the qualification in question.This, she said, was tantamount to the serious transgression of misrepresentation.In 2015, former KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Colonel Vincent Mdunge was also caught having submitted a fake matric certificate during a nationwide audit. Mdunge was found guilty of fraud and forgery by the Durban Regional Court and sentenced to five years in jail.In handing down sentence, Magistrate Thandeka Fikeni said she tried to be as lenient as she could by taking into account the fact that Mdunge was a first-time offender. However, he was a high-ranking officer and, she said, &ldquo;There is absolutely nothing respectable about white-collar criminals and crime.&rdquo;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.