Boipelo.Mere From the left are Tshepo Pharasi (HOD at the Department of Education in the Northern Cape), Letlhogonolo Lucky Nche (winner) and Dr Michelle Ishmail. Photo: Christiaan Cloete Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It is thanks to his love and passion for performing arts that Lethogonolo Lucky Nche, a Dance teacher at the St Cyprian’s Drama School in Kimberley, was given the award for best matric Dance teacher in the Northern Cape at the Further Education and Training (FET) Teacher Appreciation Awards. The ceremony was hosted by the FET curriculum direc-torate, in collaboration with Mustek, to recognise teachers for excellent performance in their respective subjects in the 2016 National Senior Certificate exams. The event was hosted at the Adamantia High School hall on Thursday, 2 February. According to Nche, his award came as a surprise. His excellent performance was acknowledged by the St Cyprian’s School of Drama, where he was asked to stand in for their teacher, who had gone overseas. Under his teaching, the high school learners ma-naged to achieve two distinctions in dance. Nche, who was initially instated on a part-time basis from March to June 2016, has since been offered a full-time position due to his outstanding performance as a Dance teacher. “I thought I only had to attend the awards ceremony to perform,” he said. “I am just fulfilling my passion and dream for dancing, but this is a good indication that my potential is being recognised. Nche also won the Arts & Culture Trust (ACT) ImpACT Award for Dance in 2015. “I will not mind if the awards keep on coming,” he said. “I feel very honoured.” On her return to work, Nche was later paired up with the school’s original Dance teacher, Carol Samp-son. “We sat down and worked out a strategy. Because she is technically good, I can contribute by bringing my expertise as creative practitioner,” he said. “Her role is critical at foundation phase, given how important it is that a child starts at a young age.” Nche takes it upon himself to encourage parents to monitor their children’s creativity levels at an early age. He highlighted his pride in the Northern Cape for displaying an improvement in the number of young children involved in performing arts. “The Northern Cape is improving slowly, but surely.” Nche is involved in various arts projects within the province and can attest to the growth. This growth is further encouraged by the many bursary opportunities and scholarships for the youth around the province that are being offered by various institutions. According to Gary Glass, the headmaster at the St Cyprian’s School, his decision to appoint Nche as a full-time Dance teacher was based on the improvement displayed by the learners and their enthusiasm for performing. He is confident that Nche’s pairing with Dance teacher, Sampson, will take dancing to greater heights.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  