Zeldr Strauss Swanepoel, PE ExpressEstella Davies and her piano student, Jaden Smith (Zeldr Strauss Swanepoel, PE Express) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth - On the very same piano on which she received lessons more than 50 years ago, she will give neighbourhood children the opportunity to learn how to master the piano. Estella Davies, 73, from Gelvandale inherited the piano from her late mother and instead of letting it gather dust, she is giving children piano lessons at a very nominal fee.&ldquo;I also cannot let my musical talent go to waste. Children often want to learn to play a musical instrument, but do not know where to go. I used to be very active, but now have ample time to teach piano in the afternoons,&rdquo; the lively pensioner said.Davies proudly states that she used to be quite popular for her musical abilities and was requested to perform at various functions, especially funerals. &ldquo;I played the organ in more than 50 churches in the Bay area. I was always willing to help out where I could,&rdquo; she said. &ldquo;My parents were very strict and they made sure that I took my music lessons seriously. My grandfather had a band and as children we used to have little family concerts. That is how my love for music grew.&rdquo;It is through music that she also met her husband of 48 years. &ldquo;He asked me to sing at a music show that they were having. That&rsquo;s how we fell in love.&rdquo;One of her students is Jaden Smith, 10, from Hillside who is eager to master the piano. She is already being taught to play the guitar by her father, musician Mano Smith. &ldquo;Jaden loves music and can&rsquo;t wait to master the piano. She also plays the tuba at school and the next instrument on her list will be the flute,&rdquo; Mano said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.