Derrick Spies, News24 correspondentNelson Mandela Metropolitan University's Vice Chancellor Professor Derrick Swartz. (File, Werner Hills, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Port Elizabeth - Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) Vice Chancellor Derrick Swartz has indicated that he will not be seeking the renewal of his contract at the end of 2017 because he wants to pursue other professional and academic interests. &nbsp; NMMU chairperson of council Judge Ronnie Pillay said in a statement that the council was made aware of Swartz's decision at the start of his second term of office, in January 2013. &nbsp; "In the coming months, the university will embark on an extensive recruitment and selection drive to look for a suitable vice chancellor (VC) and principal for appointment with effect from January 2018," said Pillay. &nbsp; "We wish to extend our sincere thanks and appreciation for his years of dedicated service and singular commitment to ensuring NMMU grows to significant heights. It is our hope that the intellect, knowledge and skills of Professor Swartz would not be lost to the city and region," said Pillay."He has the distinction of being the longest serving VC currently in South Africa and has brought a wealth of experience in regard to higher education, research and innovation, as well as social change," Pillay said. &nbsp; The council also commended Swartz for his strategic fundraising campaign that, over the last decade, raised well over R2bn.Personal fundraising campaigns"This new funding paved the way for the most far-reaching capital expansion in property, plant and intellectual capital since the original creation of the university," Pillay said. &nbsp; This funding has been used to secure, among others, three new libraries, a science complex, a new business school, two engineering buildings, one new education complex, a biokinetics complex, an atomic high resolution centre, and three large lecture hall complexes in Port Elizabeth and George. &nbsp; "Finally, council also wishes to pay tribute to his personal fundraising campaigns, climbing mountains in Peru and Japan to raise money for needy students. These efforts have certainly set a high bar for the next university leader," said Pillay.Swartz has served as VC for two successive terms since January 2007. During this time, he had anchored the university on a clear post-merger strategy, Pillay said.AchievementsSome of the major achievements of the university, with Swartz at the helm, include:24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.