Miloslav Jancia, a Czech tourist, with their rental car that was remote jammed. (Photo: Tania Sandberg, Amanzimtoti Fever) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban - International tourists who visited the Amanzimtoti area were robbed of R48 000 worth of goods when their car was remote jammed on their arrival last week.Miloslav Jancia, from the Czech Republic, said he is familiar with the area as this was his fifth visit to a Warner Beach backpackers establishment. &ldquo;Because I know the area, we decided to quickly stop at the supermarket to get refreshments before we book in as we wanted to go to the beach in the afternoon,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;We had our bags in the backseat, because we were travelling from Harrismith to Durban. Before we got to Durban, we searched for a flash drive with music, so the bags were open and we battled to close them properly. &ldquo;On arrival at the supermarket, my partner Sabina asked if we should we put the bags in the boot and we decided it was not necessary because there was a camera and there were two guards wearing &lsquo;flashing&rsquo; green vests in the parking lot. &ldquo;We were two cars travelling in tandem. We parked in front and our family behind us, they had two adults and two children, so it took us a little longer to get out of our cars. But we were in the shop for only 11 minutes,&rdquo; he explained.&ldquo;Afterwards we saw on the camera footage that there was a white VW golf hatchback with black tinted windows and silver mags parked parallel to us, on the opposite side of the road. There were at least two people in the VW. &ldquo;We parked at 1.49pm and at 1.54pm they had already robbed us and left. If it is a marketed tourist area, I feel one should take care of security and not create a false sense thereof. They clearly saw us coming, we were travelling in a hired car with Johannesburg number plates and some of us are very pale-skinned,&rdquo; Jancia said.The owner of the backpackers facility in Warner Beach, said they phoned the CCPO, who responded and they alerted SAPS, who got there in less than an hour to take statements and view footage.The community is asked to look out for an olive green Czech army bag that was taken in the robbery.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.