Mbongiseni Maseko Patricia De Lille, the Mayor of City of Cape Town, handed over toys to children at Dora Tamana Enrichment Centre in Khayelitsha on Thursday. With her are Councillors Monde Ngqulwana, Anda Ntsodo, the city mayoral committee member, Nobuntu Sohaba, the principal at the centre and children. PHOTO: Mbongiseni MASEKO Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Excitement was written all over the faces of the children of the Dora Tamana Enrichment Centre on Thursday as Cape Town Mayor Patricia De Lille and members of her committee donated toys.De Lille was accompanied by Councillors Anda Ntsodo, Monde Ngqulwana and Patrick Mngxunyeni during the handover to more that one hundred children.The centre is in Site b.De Lille had earlier made an appeal to Cape Town residents to donate toys in good condition to the city s newly established Early Childhood Development toy libraries as part of the Play It Forward Campaign. Over 100 bags of toys were received as part of the campaign which ended on 31 January.She thanked all those who contributed in the campaign.She said: The joy on their faces was absolutely priceless. I want to thank each and every resident who took the time to make donations. I am proud of them for walking the extra mile to help build a caring city. These toys are now being distributed to the 17 toy libraries we have established for the benefit of all the excellent ECD centres in their surrounds. They will also be distributed to the 32 City-owned ECDs across Cape Town, she said. The statement released said the city has budgeted over R14 billion to spend on initiatives like these over the next three years as part of their goal to continue the work of caring for families in communities.Nobuntu Sohaba, 48, the principal at the centre, said the toys will go a long way in keeping the children entertained and they will be used for educational purposes. We are situated in a disadvantaged area where most parents are unemployed. The toys will mean a lot to the children. De Lille was here last year and she promised to bring us toys. We are going to use the toys for educational purposes at our fantasy area and music area, Sohaba said.Sohaba said De Lille helped them with painting the centre, air condition and also fencing the centre around before.She also said they are planning to improve the standard of education in the centre.The centre was established in 2004 and it caters for children from ages of zero to 6. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.