Susan Cilliers, Netwerk24Soutie Durant (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Rustenburg - Soutie Durant was badly wounded, yet fought to the death to keep robbers away from his wife in their home on Sunday morning. The 61-year-old Rustenburg businessman died from multiple gunshot wounds in hospital a few hours later. He and his wife, Etrecia, were overpowered in their home in a security complex in Rustenburg in the early hours of the morning,&nbsp;Netwerk24&nbsp;reported."Everything is so unreal, it is only starting to sink in now," Quentin, the couple&rsquo;s son, said on Monday. "My dad was loved and got along with everyone."Etrecia, 59, said on Monday that she and Soutie were asleep on the top floor of their double-storey house when she heard noises from the lower level."I initially thought it was our kittens, but then I realised it sounded different. I woke my husband and said I thought there was somebody in the house."Soutie started walking down the stairs when he came across two armed robbers coming up. "We went back to the room, but couldn&rsquo;t get the door closed. One of the robbers yanked Soutie out by the arm."'He was everyone&rsquo;s friend and a real joker'Etrecia saw her husband being shot in the stomach. One of the robbers then held her in the room at gunpoint and demanded money. "The next moment there were shots from below and the robber ran away."Etrecia grabbed her cellphone and locked herself in the bathroom. "I pressed the panic button and phoned our neighbour. He said I should stay in the bathroom."The neighbour called for help. Etrecia said it became quiet in the house after the robbers fled with only a TV set.Although badly wounded, Soutie was still alive when he lay in the driveway of the neighbour&rsquo;s house across the street. He apparently tried walking there to get help. He was rushed to hospital, where doctors tried in vain to save his life."He was everyone&rsquo;s friend and a real joker," said Etrecia.She and Soutie had been married for 39 years.&nbsp;Police spokesperson Sergeant Kelebogile Moleko said no one had been arrested yet. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.