Bridget.Siebert1 PHOTO: Ian Carbutt Grey’s Hospital nurses sing at the memorial of slain Sister Ntokozo Xulu at the hospital. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories TEARY-EYED Grey’s Hospital nurses bid farewell to slain nurse Sister Ntokozo Xulu in a touching memorial service last week. Xulu (48) was shot in the head, execution style at her home in the Grange on Tuesday. According to a source, Xulu was sitting in her lounge and had been talking to someone before the shots were fired. A relative who was in the house said he heard two shots. Neighbours said they had seen a man “casually” leaving the home before getting into a black Polo and driving off. The vehicle did not have number plates. The hospital where Xulu had worked since 1995 held a memorial service in one of the halls where friends, colleagues and her family came to say their goodbyes. Xulu’s colleague, Sister Jenna Camp, said Xulu was hard working and always put patients first. She said Xulu, a cancer survivor, was always warm, caring and bubbly and the paediatric ward where she worked would not be the same without her. Another colleague, Sister Pamela Nkomonde, said Xulu was a mother, a friend and a teacher to her and the nurses who worked with her. At the memorial was Kwa­Zulu-Natal Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, who said he was shocked and dismayed at the killing of female nurses. Last year another Grey’s Hospital nurse, Sindisiwe Shelembe, was shot and killed on the Townhill part of the N3 while driving to the hospital for the night shift. In another incident in Pietermaritzburg in April, advanced midwife at Edendale Hospital Thabisile Doyisa (46), was allegedly shot and killed by her policeman husband with an R5 rifle. ER24 paramedics at the time of the incident said Doyisa was still in her uniform and had already died due to her extensive injuries before their arrival. Her husband, a member of the Public Order Police Unit in Pietermaritzburg, fled the scene before police could arrive, but hours later returned to his house where he handed himself over to officers. “Sister Xulu becomes the third nurse to be brutally killed in the space of three years in this district,” said Dhlomo. He said Xulu’s colleagues had spoken highly of the nurse, saying she was passionate about caring for people. “She demonstrated that her passion was with paediatrics by following her midwifery studies with a post-basic qualification in Child Nursing Science. “We have truly lost a mother to all sick babies at Grey’s Hospital …” Xulu leaves behind two girls aged 17 and 13, and a younger brother.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  