Amanda Khoza, News24SANDF (Picture: AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; Durban residents can expect traffic delays and road closures next week when the city hosts the South African National Defence Force's (SANDF) Armed Forces Day.The Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry said businesses should take note of the expected disruptions as the city prepares for the Armed Forces Day parade on Tuesday.Road closures on Tuesday:&nbsp; &bull; Umgeni Road south-bound from Smiso Nkwanyana Road (Goble) to KE Masinga Road (Old Fort) from 05:00 to 12:00. The road closures are due to the procession of the military hardware convoy during the parade on Umgeni Road. The convoy will salute the president. &bull; Umgeni Road south-bound (coming into town) will be closed from Smiso Nkwanyana Road (Goble) between 05:00 and 13:00. &bull; Masabalala Yengwa Avenue (MNR) will be closed from Athlone Drive at Blue Lagoon Engen Garage between 08:00 and 15:00. &bull; Masabalala Yengwa Avenue (MNR) going out of town will be closed from Sandile Thusi Road (Argyle) to Smiso Nkwanyana Road (Goble) from 05:00 to 13:00. &bull; Sandile Thusi Road (Argyle) will be closed between 10:00 and 12:00. &bull; Access to Isaiah Ntshangase Road (Walter Gilbert) will be via Umgeni Road north-bound until 10:00 and closed until 12:00.Motorists not coming to watch the parade on Tuesday have been urged to use alternative routes.Those coming to watch the parade can park along the beachfront and walk to the Moses Mabhida Stadium precinct.Exhibitions, ship tours, demonstrationsThe chamber said various activities had been planned leading up to the event which will be attended by President Jacob Zuma.Residents can visit a military exhibition at a fan park which opened on Thursday at the Durban Old Drive-In on the corner of Sandile Thusi and Sylvester Ntuli streets.The park is open daily to the public until February 21, from 09:00 to 18:00.On Saturday and Sunday, navy ships will be opened to the public at Durban Harbour from 09:00 until 16:00.There will be a live capability demonstration at New Beach on Saturday from 14:00 to 15:00.Residents in the area have been warned to expect loud explosions, helicopters and other aircraft flying as well as boats beaching.An Armed Forces Day gala music concert is expected to take place on Saturday from 18:30 at the Durban City Hall.There is a fun walk planned for Sunday at the beachfront which will start at 06:00. It will begin near the Blue Waters Hotel, participants will then head to Blue Lagoon and walk back.On Monday and Tuesday, there will be armed forces night fire displays and capability demonstrations at Blue Lagoon. An Armed Forces Day parade is expected to take place at 10:00 on Tuesday on the M4 road podium at the back-end of Moses Mabhida Stadium.Members of the public have been invited.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.