Lynn.Hitchcock Photo: supplieD SAPS keep watch over the flames. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories RESIDENTS in Magwaveni near Fairbreeze took to the streets on Monday evening and barricaded the R102 main road with burning tyres, demanding better service delivery. The protestors damaged the electricity power box and set it alight.The residents protested against the electricity blackout in the Magwaveni area that started last Sunday until Monday evening.Nazir Sadack for Community Emergency Response Team (Cert) said: The residents damaged two cars and the situation got out of hand. Members of the Tongaat SAPS arrived and tried to resolve the situation. The ward councillor also came and addressed the residents. The protestors dispersed peacefully. Warrant Officer Ricky Moodley from Tongaat SAPS said the power was restored on Tuesday and the R102 was cleared.Warrant Officer Moodley said the police and technicians worked throughout the night removing rubble that was left on the road.A resident in the area Zodwa Thwala confirmed that the residents were protesting against electricity blackout. I called the councillor to report about power failure and she said she was not aware that residents in Magwaveni did not have lights. Ward councillor Zanele Chili told theWeekly : I will contact the electricity department to find out why lights went off in the area. I addressed the residents on Monday evening and the power came back on Tuesday. eThekwini Municipality said in a statement: eThekwini Municipality has a dedicated team of staff members who strive to provide superior service to all city residents. Service delivery remains our key priority. The matter was referred to the relevant unit for investigation. Residents are encouraged to report power outages to the electricity s call centre. KZN police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said: A case of illegal gathering is being investigated by the Tongaat SAPS. It is alleged that a group of about 250 community members from Magwaveni area embarked in a protest action. They blockaded the R102 with burning tyres and rubbles. No injuries were reported. Residents can contact the electricity s call centre on 080 131 3111, SMS 083 700 0819 or email customer@elec.durban.gov.za A case of illegal gathering is being investigated by the Tongaat SAPS. It is alleged that a group of about 250 community members from Magwaveni area embarked in a protest action. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.