System  Photo: supplied Sibaya Community Trustees (from left) Judge Vuka Tshabalala, Vivian Reddy with top MADI pupil Samkelo Gasela, CSI manager, Kudzai Mqingwana and Tristan Kaatze (chairman).   
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     TOPPING the list in Sibaya Community Trust’s, Matric Academic Development Initiative (MADI) was 18-year old Samkelo Gasela of ML Sultan Secondary School who won the Tristan Kaatze DUX Shield and a ‘life-changing’ R200 000 bursary at an awards ceremony at Sun Sibaya last week. Samkelo, whose father is retired and mother a security guard, was the top performing pupil among MADI participants, achieving top marks in the programme. He said the bursary was a dream come true as he had been accepted to study B.Com at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, but had no funds. “This was a huge surprise. I knew I was going to receive an award, but I was not aware there was such a huge incentive. All I can say, is that this is a godsend.” He said he owed his performance to the Saturday and holiday classes. “Had it not been for the initiative, I would never have performed so well. So, thank you Sibaya Community Trust - your efforts are highly appreciated.” Another big winner was Manaba Secondary. The Ndwedwe school was presented with the Vivian Reddy Excellence Award and R50 000 after the school achieved a 100% pass rate during the exams. The Judge Vuka Tshabalala Spirit Award went to Ubuhlebesizwe Secondary for achieving the highest number of tertiary passes among MADI schools. Sibaya Community Trustee, Vivian Reddy praised pupils and teachers for their efforts. “We are glad that MADI has started to produce good results. Congratulations to all who put in the extra effort. There is no replacement for hard work and dedication. My appreciation goes to our Trust management, who worked tirelessly to achieve the desired results. We see these results as just the first part of our overall effort and are looking forward to even better results in 2017,” he said. Individual subject awards of R10 000 were presented to: Sphamandla Mbokazi of Inkosi Albert Luthuli Secondary (Maths, physical science), Mthokozisi Bhuleni of ML Sultan Secondary (accounting), Thobeka Bengu of Ubuhlebesizwe Secondary (English) and Slindile Cele of ML Sultan Secondary (life science). The MADI Most Improved Student Award of R15 000 went to Zwisisa Nyathikazi. Most improved teacher awards went to two teachers, Ms Ngema and Ms Dube of Ubuhlebesizwe Secondary.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  