Mahlatse Gallens, News 24 Jeremy Cronin. (Lisa Hnatowicz, Foto24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Disgraced former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe is officially a member of Parliament. WATCHJohannesburg - Former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe&rsquo;s swearing-in as an MP was ill-advised and clumsily-handled, the SACP said on Friday.There was confusion over which African National Congress branch he was a member of, and the haste with which the move was made raised questions, said South African Communist Party first deputy secretary, Jeremy Cronin.The tripartite alliance partner said it was never consulted on his nomination to Parliament. Different ANC branches in Gauteng and North West claimed him as a member. Other members within the same North West branch claimed he was not on their books.&ldquo;If we were consulted, we would have said it is a very ill-advised move, even for Mr Molefe himself.&rdquo;Cronin said the honourable thing for Molefe to have done would have been to decline the position. This would have allowed for a cooling-off period after his stint at Eskom, or to be cleared from the findings in Public Protector Thuli Madonsela&rsquo;s State of Capture report.Mandonsela found Molefe made several calls to a member of the Gupta family and visited their Saxonwold, Johannesburg, compound on numerous occasions. She suggested the family had unduly benefited from Eskom&rsquo;s coal contracts.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s not good for him either. He enters into the parliamentary space, perhaps with other intentions, as well as under this deep, dark cloud. It is not good for him and it is not good for the country or the ANC&rsquo;s reputation.&rdquo;Molefe was sworn-in in the Speaker&rsquo;s office on Thursday. The move fuelled speculation that President Jacob Zuma could reshuffle Cabinet to include him.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.