Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro. (Juan Barreto, AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Caracas - Venezuelans have for the first time led asylum
requests to the United States as the country's middle class fled the crashing,
oil-dependent economy. Data from the US government's Citizenship and Immigration
Services show that 18 155 Venezuelans submitted asylum requests last year, a
150% increase over 2015 and six times the level seen in 2014. China was second
place, with 17 745 requests coming from citizens of that country. Venezuela first cracked the top 10 asylum-seeking nations
following months of sometimes bloody street protests in early 2014 seeking to
oust President Nicolas Maduro. But back then, amid the widespread jailing and harassment of
opponents of the socialist administration, fewer than 100 Venezuelans per month
sought asylum. That compares with 2 334 requests in December, 2016, the last
month for which data is available. The number of applicants has skyrocketed since December
2015, when the opposition took control of congress in a landslide election,
giving hope to many that it could disrupt 17 years of socialist rule. Instead
of reaching out to his opponents, Maduro retrenched and more and more
Venezuelans began to uproot as triple-digit inflation pulverised salaries and
widespread food and medicine shortages made life unbearable for many. The vast majority leaving are middle-class Venezuelans who
don't qualify for refugee status reserved for those seeking to escape political
persecution, according to Julio Henriquez, director of the Boston-based
nonprofit Refugee Freedom Program, which has been drawing attention to the
trend. "The pace at which requests are increasing is
alarming," said Henriquez, whose group obtained the still-unpublished data
in a February 8 meeting between US officials and immigration lawyers.
"It's not just worrisome that so many people are escaping the terrible
situation in Venezuela but also that the practice of sending asylum-seekers
with poor advice and false proof is proliferating." Still, given mounting hardships at home, increasing numbers
of Venezuelans are willing to take advantage of a more-than-two-year delay for
their applications to be processed to obtain work authorisation and seek
short-term employment even if it means being eventually deported. In the 2015 fiscal year, Venezuela was among the top 10
countries whose citizens had overstayed their visas in the United States,
according to an estimate of visa overstays by the Department of Homeland
Security. Venezuelans seeking US asylum represent a small share of the
overall Venezuelan immigrant population, some of whom have made their home in
the US for decades. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  