Tshidi Madia, News24Violent protests in Atteridgeville. (Supplied: CICA) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; President Jacob Zuma has strongly condemned the violent tensions which have recently broken out between South Africans and immigrants in parts of Gauteng.- Are you there? Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos. His office announced on Friday that he would champion the fight against crime in order to promote safe and stable communities in the country."The situation has become more serious in light of current threats of violence and acts of intimidation and destruction of property directed at non-nationals living in South Africa," said the Presidency.Violent protests broke out in Atteridgeville on Friday morning, with protesters blockading entrances and exits to the township, while an anti-immigrant group prepared to march in the Tshwane city centre.Zuma also called for residents to exercise restraint.'Simmering tensions'On Saturday, residents of Pretoria West raided homes they alleged were being used as brothels and drug dens. They called for "pimps" to release prostitutes and send them back home. Two houses were set alight.On February 11, at least 10 houses allegedly being used for drug dealing and prostitution were set alight in Rosettenville, Johannesburg. Locals claimed Nigerians were behind the criminal activity."There are simmering tensions that have been reported in other areas including the dissemination of hate speech and threatening messages via social media," noted the Presidency.The president has called on people to unite against crime and work with the authorities to bring criminals to book.Zuma also appealed to citizens not to blame all criminal activities on non-nationals."It is wrong to brandish all non-nationals as drug dealers or human traffickers. Let us isolate those who commit such crimes and work with government to have them arrested, without stereotyping and causing harm to innocent people."The president visited Nyanga in Cape Town two weeks ago, one of the country's leading crime hotspots. He will be visiting other communities as well to obtain a first-hand account of problems faced on the ground with respect to crime, said the Presidency.Pres Zuma to champion fight against crime &amp; calls for restraint in wake of tensions between locals and non-nationals https://t.co/dHorYI475y&mdash; PresidencyZA (@PresidencyZA) February 24, 2017Pres Zuma to champion fight against crime &amp; calls for restraint in wake of tensions between locals and non-nationals https://t.co/dHorYI475y#Atteridgeville current situation, peaceful marching here they go looting trucks. What is this clearly showing? pic.twitter.com/mZXrVZe2FL&mdash; Dunn (@KapandulaDuncan) February 24, 2017#Atteridgeville current situation, peaceful marching here they go looting trucks. What is this clearly showing? pic.twitter.com/mZXrVZe2FLAtteridgeville right now pic.twitter.com/MLyB5fOuJg&mdash; Doctor Mashoba_Dieta (@DankiE_VyF) February 24, 2017Atteridgeville right now pic.twitter.com/MLyB5fOuJg24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.