Amanda Khoza, News24 Lungile Khoza, 22, says her life has been on hold since 2015, when her matric results were withheld after her school was implicated in a group copying scandal. (Amanda Khoza/News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Durban &ndash; A KwaZulu-Natal woman accused of being part of a group copying scandal in her matric year has been unable to move on with her life because she has still not received her results two years later.Lungile Khoza, of Extension Two in Chesterville, Durban, wrote matric at Chesterville Secondary School in 2014.The 22-year-old said she received the results of only four of her six subjects because of allegations of mass copying at the school. The results for the other two, accountancy and maths, were withheld.She wrote supplementary exams, but claimed she did not receive those results either."We have been waiting since. I want this to be sorted out so that I can apply for university."The matter was standing between her and her dream of becoming a social worker.Court action"I love helping people because I have been helped so much by social workers. There is a social worker named Talente. She used to come and check on us often. She would check our uniforms and made sure that we passed at school."Khoza and her brother Lunga, 15, are foster children. Their aunt, Rhoda Khoza, has been looking after them since their mother died in 2003.She denied being part of the copying.KwaZulu-Natal education department spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the school took the department to court to demand that the results be released.He said the court action had influenced pupils not to co-operate with the department&rsquo;s investigation."Some of these children were able to rewrite their exams. Some admitted that they copied and others never came forward to give interviews."The pupils needed to come forward so the department could determine what had happened. The department could then allow them to rewrite their exams and they could move on with their lives.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.