Nicole.JohnMSUNDUZI Mayor Themba Njilo recently presented his 100 days in office speech at a full council meeting highlighting his journey since his inauguration in August last year. Njilo said he prioritised meeting with all the relevant stakeholders in the city in order to build strong, lasting relationships during his term in office. He held numerous imbizos, conducted various site visits as well as overall community visits during the three-month period. Njilo s Mayoral Special Programmes are targeted at vulnerable groups, youth, children, people with disabilities and senior citizens. The implementation of these programmes is done in consultation with ward councillors and ward committee members. In his report he stated that the municipality is dedicated to providing its residents with a safe environment and as such as strengthened partnerships with the SAPS and Safe City in order to monitor crime in some of the crime hot spots around the city. Njilo has also been at the forefront of increasing infrastructure and fast-tracked various road, electricity and community hall developments. The Brookside Taxi Rank was also opened last year in order to alleviate traffic congestion in the CBD. The municipality has been able to construct 31 bus shelters. In terms of water and sanitation, 3.7km of new sewer pipes have been installed and 3.5km of water pipes have been constructed. While pockets of success are notable there are a number of projects that are behind schedule, which will need contingency plans from the municipal manager to ensure that managers spend and projects move at the desired pace, said Njilo in his report. He added the municipality has opened up communication platforms for various stakeholders to ensure that the city is accessible to all. Njilo said the municipality remains committed to creating a clean, green city and although challenges were faced in terms of waste management by way of a strike last year, the municipality have taken proactive steps to deal with the matter. All the necessary action is being taken to address the problems encountered during and as a result of the strike. He said the municipality plans to increase capacity in its workforce and has advertised positions internally. Although there is still some ground to be covered the positive and constructive atmosphere between the councillors from all parties within the council is encouraging. The spirit of patriotism is clearly demonstrated by the robust discussions at some of the committee meetings. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.