Jeanette Chabalala, News24Richard Mdluli s (File, Beeld) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; More than 10 years after his death relatives of Oupa Ramogibe, who allegedly had an affair with former crime intelligence boss Richard Mdluli's lover Tshidi Buthelezi, are still reeling from his death."We are still battling with his death. We can't find closure because even today they still haven't found his killers," Ramogibe's sister Mantle Jiyane told News24 on Friday.Mdluli had a long-term relationship with Buthelezi from his school days and claimed she was his wife.However, while she was seeing Mdluli, Buthelezi met Ramogibe and they started a relationship. They married on July 22, 1998.Ramogibe allegedly received death threats after marrying Mdluli's ex-lover and was told to leave her or he would be killed.Ramogibe opened an attempted murder case before his death.'Oupa was a very nice person'"My brother died for love," a distraught Jiyane said.Ramogibe was shot and killed and no one has been convicted of his murder. Charges of murder against Mdluli and his co-accused were withdrawn. &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; At the time, Mdluli was the station commander at the Vosloorus police station in Boksburg, east of Johannesburg, and was accused of sabotaging the investigation.She said Ramogibe died at the age of 26."Since the case resurfaced, it has been difficult for my mother. She has been in and out of hospitals."Oupa was a very nice person and my mother depended on him," she said.Witnesses 'coached'On Thursday during cross-examination Mdluli claimed that a project was put together to falsely prosecute him.He said there were senior people who were part of a project, Ulibambe Lingashoni, set up to advance their agenda against him. &nbsp;Mdluli claimed that the operation was intended to "falsely incriminate him and pull him down".He also said witnesses were found and put in witness protection "in order to coach them to falsely prosecute me".Mdluli and his co-accused Mthembeni Mthunzi face charges of intimidation, kidnapping, assault with the intent to commit grievous bodily harm and defeating the ends of justice.Asked by state prosecutor Advocate Zaais van Zyl about how he felt when he was told that his wife was involved with another man, Mdluli said: "Any reasonable man won't be happy, I was angry. I felt shameful and embarrassed."Mdluli and Mthunzi allegedly intimidated, kidnapped and assaulted Ramogibe.They have pleaded not guilty. The charges against the pair stem from the alleged extreme lengths that Mdluli went to between 1997 and 1999 to find out where Buthelezi and Ramogibe were hiding. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.