James de Villiers, News24 SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The single mother of the 24-year-old man killed in a shooting in Hanover Park is determined not to let his death stop her from fighting against gang violence.&ldquo;Many people have asked me. It&rsquo;s not going to stop me. I am going to keep fighting against gang violence because no parent should lose a child this way,&rdquo; Nazeema Samuels, 36, told News24 on Monday.Toufieq Samuels was shot while on his way back home from a shop on Sunday.&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know what to say; I am feeling numb,&rdquo; she said.Police spokesperson Colonel Andr&egrave; Traut said the killer&rsquo;s identity was not yet known.READ: 5-year-old girl shot in Cape Town gang warfare&lsquo;No angel&rsquo;Samuels said she did not want to speculate about the cause of his death and asked that no photos of her son be published.&ldquo;Yes, he played soccer with these guys and chatted to these guys, but does that make you a gangster?&ldquo;My son was not an angel. He had his faults, but he certainly had no mark,&rdquo; she said. She was referring to the mark of the local Gecko gang.&ldquo;I want no retaliation. I don&rsquo;t want to fight fire with fire. It is not going to bring back my son.&rdquo;Two weeks ago, Samuels was helping the family of Ashline Telmarks. The 5-year-old girl was shot in a gang-crossfire in Algoa Court, near Hanover Park. She is still recovering in hospital.In 2012, Western Cape premier Helen Zille asked that the SA National Defence Force be deployed to fight gang violence on the Cape Flats. National government turned down the request.President Jacob Zuma, however, ordered the deployment 441 SANDF troops for his State of the Nation Address on Thursday.READ: Cape Town plans to stop support for SONACity of Cape Town mayoral committee for safety, JP Smith, told News24 that the military would not solve the problem.&ldquo;What is going to solve gang-related crime is investing in specialised police units and better prosecution. Everything else is life support,&rdquo; Herron said.During his address, Zuma announced the reintroduction of specialised units after the ANC-led government phased them out in 2001.Samuels said the justice system was failing the community.&ldquo;We have perpetrators coming back into the community after receiving bail. One guy has four murder charges and still gets bail. How is that even possible?&rdquo;She said grew up with gang activity, but it seemed to have intensified after 2010.&ldquo;The gang violence we have now is different. The people are now cruel, they are inhumane.&rdquo;She thanked a resident who came forward to give a statement about her son&rsquo;s death. It took a lot of bravery and it was rare for someone to do that in the area, she said.She thanked God for keeping her strong. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.