Amanda Khoza, News24 (Picture: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban – The Nelson Mandela Foundation will on Monday launch the Nelson Mandela Centenary programme to mark 100 years since his birth, it said on Saturday as it commemorated 27 years since his release from prison. The foundation in a statement said it would return to Orlando East, to the Donaldson Orlando Community Centre [DOCC], where Madiba used to train in the 1950s. "We believe that as a society if we apply Madiba’s humility, tact and penchant for dialogue, we can face the challenges that threaten South Africa. "As we reflect on an unforgettable South African moment, let us be sure not to see it in isolation. The #27for27 campaign calls on us to reflect on our past, engage on the present and imagine the future the way we would want to see it." Historic address It was on this day in 1990, that Mandela was released from prison after serving more than 27 years following his arrest on August 5, 1962. "A towering figure, his fist in the air, he emerged from the gates of Victor Verster Prison in Cape Town, signifying the end of an era and the beginning of another. The first sight of him followed by his address at Cape Town City Hall, served as a moment South Africa stood together in hope." The foundation said that although the huge crowds which had gathered at the Cape Town Grand Parade led to delays in him appearing on the balcony, the people waited patiently to hear him speak. "His historic address from the balcony of the City Hall gave the world a glimpse into the values and character of a leader that would guide South Africa into its new chapter." Mandela’s long-time friend, Walter Sisulu, presented Mandela to the impatient crowds, after which Madiba delivered what would be his first speech as a free man, the foundation recalled. A scheduled media conference had to be postponed due to delays at City Hall and the following day, Mandela’s first words to the media were those of gratitude. Reflecting on Madiba’s first moments of freedom Madiba sat in front of dozens of journalists, he had the support of his then wife, Winnie Mandela and Sisulu, who sat next to him on that Monday, February 12 day, at Bishopscourt, the official home of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, where he spent his first night of freedom. The Nelson Mandela Foundation now has a recording of the entire press conference, thanks to a donation of audio archival material from South African journalist Paddi Clay, it said. The first question came from a television journalist from ITN in London. Mandela was asked how he felt "as a free man" and his response was yet another demonstration of his humility and respect. He said, "Before I respond to that question, I think it [is] proper for us to apologise for the failure of the press conference yesterday. Our marshals did exceptionally good work but the crowd was too big and it became impossible for us to keep to our program and we very much regret that we could not fulfil that engagement. "Having said that, I want to assure you that I’m absolutely excited to be out. I’m also excited to have the opportunity of addressing you, because throughout these difficult years in prison, the press, both locally and foreign, have been a brick to us." He went on to say, "I think it was originally the intention of the government that we should be forgotten and that their leaders, leaders of the homelands, bantustans and all those who work within government structures, should be built up and that we should be forgotten. "It was the press that kept the memory of those who had been imprisoned for offences which they committed in the course of their political activities – it was the press that never forgot us. And we are, therefore, indebted to you and I’m happy to be with you this morning." The following day, February 13, he went to Orlando Stadium in Soweto, where he addressed thousands who were eager to hear him speak. On this day, the foundation said, Mandela was reunited with the community he left in April 1961. "As we reflect on Madiba’s first moments of freedom it is important that we do not isolate them from the present South African experience. "Just as the moment Madiba stepped out of jail gave us hope for a just and unified South Africa, our memory of it should stir in us a determination to address challenges of inequality, poverty and social exclusion we face today, the foundation said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  