 gen Vos, Netwerk24Ludi Vink (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; A young artist who was declared brain dead after he was stabbed in the eye with a pool cue in a pub in Alberton is going to save many lives.Ludi Vink, 30, was at Mitzy's Biker Pub in Randhart with his mother Danlee on Tuesday when a man walked up to him and stabbed him in the eye. CCTV footage shows the man turn around and walk away after the attack, Netwerk24 reported.According to family members, Vink had tried to stop the man from attacking the bar owner.&nbsp;Vink was taken to the Thelle Mogoerane Hospital and was then transferred to the Wits Donald Gordon Medical Centre in Johannesburg.&nbsp;- Health24: FAQ about organ donationThe family made the decision to donate his organs after he was declared brain dead. He was brought out of theatre at 20:15 on Thursday night and his heart was sent to Cape Town, his sister Karla said.&nbsp;His liver was divided. One part will go to a small child and the rest to an adult. His kidneys were also on their way to another patient.His fianc&eacute;e Clare Boadle, 25, said on Thursday that his organs would help at least eight people.&nbsp; Boadle is an Australian citizen and only landed in Johannesburg at 04:30 on Thursday. Boadle and the family had until 13:30 to say their goodbyes.'He will live on in our hearts'"Ludi was the funniest, most wonderful person. The doctors said his blood type was B positive, and that is exactly how he lived his life," Karla said."It was a terrible way to go but we get comfort in the fact that his organs will give others a chance to live. And he will live on in our hearts."Vink will be cremated and his father will scatter his ashes on a mountain in Limpopo where they went camping last weekend. Some of the ashes will go to Jeffreys Bay where he used to surf and Boadle will take the rest with to Australia.Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo said the police are on the trail of the murderer.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.