Jyothi.LaldasThe Proteas team who are looking forward to the upcoming championships. Photo: supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories TEAM SKISA Proteas Shriya Misra, Riasha Singh Yashveer Jugoo and Protea team captain Theo Pillay attended an advanced technical coaching seminar under the watchful eye of Protea head coach Brando Pillay on the weekend at the Tongaat Sports Centre in preparation for the forthcoming KSA nationals 2017. The seasoned tournament fighters who have all been crowned champions at the recent KZN all styles championships braved the soaring high summer temperatures to stay fighting fit for their next major challenge - the KSA Nationals 2017.Pint sized top ranked national ladies black belt fighter Riasha Singh expressed her confidence. She said: I am in the best form of my karate career and am going for gold at the KSA nationals 2017. Protea head coach Brando Pillay who coaches and mentors the Skisa Proteas was full of praise for the champions. These fighters train 24-7 and therefore are super-fit, hence my firm view that they will be crowned KSA champions at the forthcoming nationals. Current Protea national senior men s team captain Theo Pillay, a final year town planning student at DUT, is looking forward to the KSA event as well. I am optimistic that I will become the National KSA champion 2017 namely I ve worked very hard on my tournament karate techniques with my mentor Sensei Brando, said Pillay. President of KSA Sonny Pillay Hanshi encouraged all the Proteas (current KZN champions) Shriya Misra, Yash Jugoo, Riasha Singh and Theo Pillay, among others, to seriously focus on their karate careers going forward as karate is now a very integral part of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. These national Proteas have an excellent chance of making the Olympics come 2020, said Pillay. I also urge parents to engage their children in karate practice given that karate was recently announced as an world youth Olympic sport for 2018 in Argentina. For details, call the KSA HQ on 082 557 7784 or email president@karate-sa.org 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.