Lizeka Tandwa, News24Malusi Gigaba Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Minister of Home Affairs Malusi Gigaba has echoed President Jacob Zuma's words that South Africans are not Xenophobic in their nature. Following a recent spate of Xenophobic attacks in Gauteng, Gigaba said South Africans hold no ill will towards immigrants, "nor do they intimidate them, or loot or burn their property".Gigaba was speaking at the Lighthouse Chapel International Church in Pretoria on Sunday.&nbsp;"The vast majority of South Africans are not xenophobic, and the vast majority of immigrants are law-abiding, religious people who seek only what is best for their children and families, for their fellow brethren, and for their countries both of origin and abode."Gigaba asked for the country to remain vigilant and partner with government in raising awareness of how to manage international migration "constructively".&nbsp;Gigaba condemned unscrupulous businesses who hire foreigners exclusively blaming them for adding fuel to the fire."We are acting and taking harsh action against managers who engage in illegal and immoral hiring practices." He added that vigilante activities resulted in mobs punishing the victims of unscrupulous employment practices while absolving the unscrupulous, criminal and immoral employers themselves.Gigaba blamed international news agencies whom he said, "fed communities afar ... negative news about its [Africa's] people and the continent". He said media reports showed a South Africa on a war footing, reinforcing their message that Africans are a depraved people who will turn on each other for whatever reason.Residents raided densViolence broke out in Pretoria West on Friday, as community members vowed to rid the area of drugs and prostitution. Angry residents raided what they called drug dens, telling the tenants they did not want them living there. They also called for "pimps" to release prostitutes and send them back home. Armed police monitored the situation, while residents, some armed with sticks and rods, roamed the streets. Two houses, an alleged drug den and a brothel, were gutted earlier in the morning. At least 10 houses suspected of belonging to drug lords and brothel owners were set alight during a protest in Rosettenville last week. &nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.