Jeanette Chabalala, News24(File, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Pietermaritzburg &ndash; A KwaZulu-Natal man kidnapped with his wife during a robbery at their Midlands home has been found dead, police said on Monday. Roger Solik, 66, who had been fighting Parkinson&rsquo;s disease for 20 years, was found murdered and his hands tied, on Monday morning, Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said. He was found a few kilometres away from where the body of his wife, Christine Solik, 57, was found. They were forced from their home during a robbery at the Bend Country Estate in the early hours of Friday morning. Christine was found, bound and beaten, in a river in the lower Lotheni area of Impendle, later that day. The Solik family said in a statement earlier that police contacted them on Friday to tell them there had been a robbery at their family home and that their mother had been found in a river, murdered, some 70km from the house. &ldquo;Mom is murdered, and our dad has hours to live,&rdquo; the family said in their statement. &ldquo;He has fought hard against Parkinson&rsquo;s disease for 20 years. Daily medication is essential for his condition and, no matter how mentally fit he is, without his medication he will become totally dysfunctional within 48 hours. &ldquo;It is critical that we find our father soon as he has hours to live. &ldquo;Our parents were inseparable and their relationship was something to aspire to. It is hard to understand that on their community farmland estate, with rolling hills and endless nature, and neighbours 100 metres away, that something so violent could happen," said the family. The Witness reported on Monday that the couple&rsquo;s disappearance was first noticed when a neighbour, who was out walking on Friday morning, saw their car was missing. A concerned neighbour entered the house and found &ldquo;everything upside down&rdquo; and blood stains around the home. A case of house robbery and kidnapping was opened at the Nottingham Road police station. Later that morning, police traced the couple&rsquo;s cellphones, which led them to the Soliks&rsquo; car. It was found abandoned in Taylor&rsquo;s Halt, more than 90km away. Police then received a call that a person walking near the Lotheni River in Impendle had spotted a woman&rsquo;s body. She was identified as Christine Solik. Her hands and feet had been bound with wire and her head covered with a pillow case. She had been severely beaten. It is believed that money was drawn from the Soliks&rsquo; bank accounts in the Midlands and on the coast. Thank you to everyone who shared the press release. Roger Soliks body was found today and he will be laid to rest soon. ??&mdash; Togepi (@panda_pri94) February 20, 2017Thank you to everyone who shared the press release. Roger Soliks body was found today and he will be laid to rest soon. ??24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.