Chevon Booysen @Chevonbooysen Lansdowne police have issued a warning to motorists to be vigilant after a spike in car theft has been noticed in the policing precinct. Lansdowne police spokesperson Sergeant Nkululeko Mnyaka says more than 14 cars were stolen during January alone. This has raised a big concerned as there were only two cars which were recovered and no arrest had been made in these theft incidents. The most targeted areas are entertainment places situated in Wetton, Plantation and Bamboesvlei roads in Lansdowne sector 1, Mnyaka says. He adds more cars were also stolen in sectors 2 and 3 during January in residential areas. Mnyaka says mostly old cars valued under R50 000 are targeted. [The thefts] included Toyota Corollas, Volkswagens, Fords and Nissans and occurred during the early hours of the morning. Some thefts take place between 23:00 and 02:00, he adds. Mnyaka says the two cars recovered were found in Nyanga and Mitchell s Plain. The one car was found in Nyanga a day after it was stolen on Friday 13 January. The other car was found in Stock Road, Mitchell s Plain on Monday 23 January after it had been stolen on Wednesday 18 January, Mnyaka says. The two cars have been returned to their owners. Mnyaka says the investigations into the other stolen cars are still ongoing.Newly appointed Lansdowne Police Station commander Colonel Elizabeth Hermanus has urged all entertainment businesses to strengthen their security inside their premises and in their parking areas. Residents and those who are visiting in the Lansdowne policing precinct are to ensure their cars are locked and alarms activated and they have devices to secure and prevent theft, Mnyaka adds. We call on all business owners with car guards in the parking bays to bring them to the police station for profiling. V Anyone with information relating to crime is urged to call the Lansdowne detectives on 021 700 9000 or 082 576 2804. Anonymity for information given is guaranteed. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.