Nic Bothma / POOL / AFP Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - A selection of quotes from some of the quirky and major stories of the past week."They want to inject members of the EFF with biological agents that will deactivate them for the rest of the day." &ndash; Floyd Shivambu speaking in the National Assembly ahead of President Jacob Zuma's State of the Nation Address (SONA)."Mr Zuma please leave, you don&rsquo;t belong here. You are a constitutional delinquent." &ndash; EFF MP Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, shouting at the president in the National Assembly ahead of the SONA."I was brought up in a different era. Respect is the key to our culture." &ndash; IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, on why he did not walk out of Parliament."The Speaker was too patient. You don&rsquo;t allow that kind of disruption to continue for an hour. She should have dealt with that disruption in 20 minutes and be done with it." &ndash; ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe, on how National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete handled the chaos that preceded the SONA. "If you come with some shenanigans of trying to disrupt, we will deal with your constipation that comes haphazardly." &ndash; ANC NEC member Fikile Mbalula, on attempts to disrupt the ANC&rsquo;s "People&rsquo;s Assembly" in Cape Town."If we were abusing state power, people wouldn&rsquo;t even know, by the way. When you abuse state power, you do it in such a manner that people can't see through what you are doing." &ndash; Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, reacting to the deployment of the army at the SONA."He prefers to be a kortbroek, a spanner boy, a runner for a bunch of crooks and criminals." &ndash; Save SA convener Sipho Pityana, referring to Zuma, during the "real" SONA."He was an icon people looked up to, he did not represent just rugby, but he represented South Africa as a country." - Artist Loyiso Bala talking about Springbok legend Joost van der Westhuizen, ahead of his memorial service at Loftus Versfeld. "He said that women are delicate. We need to make sure that we made a good decision so that we don't regret it tomorrow. He doesn't say she can&rsquo;t lead, but he is putting his view that this job is not easy. We need to make sure a woman is able to take on the role." &ndash; Xhosa Prince Xhanti Sigcawu on what his brother, King Mphendulo Sigcawu, had said about former AU commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma possibly becoming South African president. "The real Marikana would turn into a complete sideshow compared to what would happen." - Peter Hodes, SC for the private owners of the erven in Delft East, Cape Town, arguing in the Western Cape High Court that the government should buy the landowners out, instead of evicting the 60 000 people living on the property.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.