News24 Correspondent  Emmerson Mnangagwa. (File: AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa says the cash-strapped
Zimbabwe government is piling up reserves of gold and diamonds to back a new
local currency. But he did not say when the new currency would be
introduced. In November 2016 the central bank introduced "bond
notes", bank notes which are tradeable only in Zimbabwe and have no value
outside its borders. Bond notes in short supply But the bond notes, like the forex Zimbabwe has depended on
since the worthless Zimbabwe dollar was abandoned in 2009, are in critically
short supply. “We are building up reserves of gold and diamonds which if
they reach a certain level… will then allow us to introduce our own currency
that will be backed by those minerals,” Mnangagwa said. “I am not at liberty to disclose to you the level that we
want those minerals to reach before they can back our own currency,” he said,
in comments carried Friday by the state-run Herald. Mining in protected areas The revelation comes amid reports the government had
extended its quest for precious minerals into previously protected areas,
including national parks. Mnangagwa was addressing a meeting in the south-eastern
cane-growing town of Chiredzi, where he was questioned on the currency
shortages, said the Herald. Mnangagwa said the only the forex the country was getting
was from exports, NGOs, loans, or foreign investment.  Equipment from Belaras The Zimbabwe government recently bought equipment from
Belarus to excavate conglomerate diamonds in Chiadzwa, in the east of the
country, and says it will lift protection status on a million acres of land to
boost gold mining by artisanal miners. The news has alarmed environmentalists as even national
parks could be targeted. The Chimanimani Tourist Association said on Facebook
it had been told by the environment minister that the stunningly beautiful
Chimanimani National Park in the east of the country would not be spared. It
said it was working with Tourism Minister Walter Mzembi and local chiefs to
keep the mountains protected.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  