Nokuthula Khanyile, The Witness The flooded parking lot of Gresham House office complex in Wembley. (Ian Carbutt) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A Business park in Wembley was flooded after an underground water pipe burst in Old Howick Road on Thursday, leaving business owners scrambling to save their belongings. The burst pipe sent water gushing into several office blocks on Wembley Terrace. Pam Golding Properties was one of the businesses affected by the flooding. Estate agent Denise McGladdery said according to residents living nearby, the water started pouring out at around 6.15 am. “A resident who stays in the area underneath our building said when she woke up this morning she thought it was raining. There was so much water pouring down our driveway on the side of the building.” McGladdery said although the burst water pipe was reported to the municipality early on Thursday morning, the municipality only responded hours later. “Every neighbour in the area reported the burst pipe. When we got to the office at 7.45 am we also reported it again. They [the municipality] only arrived at 10 am to turn the water off.” She said it must have been “gallons and gallons” of drinkable water wasted. “The office block below us was flooded and the parking lot was like a river. The employees could not get into the building because they were afraid that their cars would be damaged due to the overflow of water.” McGladdery said the burst water pipe could have been as a result of road works currently happening in the area. Another resident said the disaster could have been averted if the municipality had responded sooner. Residents said the extremely high water pressure was so intense that some parts of the road surface seemed to have washed away during the burst on Thursday. “The water has been gushing out for hours and we are afraid it could develop into a sink hole,” he said. Another resident said the wasting of water is a big issue in the area with constant water leaks almost daily. “If you come up Old Howick Road once or twice a day there is always water pouring down the road and into the gutter. We would like to know where that water is coming from. That is water wasted and the municipality must attend to these leaks.” No response was received from Msunduzi Municipality at the time of going to press. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  