Caryn Dolley, News24 Car in which alleged 28s gang boss Ralph Stanfield was shot in in Melrose. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Eerie claims have surfaced about how gunmen hurriedly removed a tracker from a car after two men were killed in it in Pinelands - a shooting which played out about a week before alleged 28s gang boss Ralph Stanfield was wounded in Johannesburg. Stanfield, the nephew of the late Cape Town drug lord Colin Stanfield, was shot in a drive-by incident in Melrose on Thursday afternoon. Police said they had launched a manhunt to find those behind the shooting. The motive, according to spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo, was not immediately clear. An update on the case was not available on Friday morning. A spate of shootings has played out around Cape Town recently as an underworld turf war, mainly linked to the nightclub security industry, has escalated. Several sources, with close knowledge of underworld shifts, have been warning for weeks that the violence is set to spread. On June 28, two men - one of them a right-hand man to a 27s gang leader - were killed in Pinelands in a shooting. Several sources with inside knowledge said two suspects, dressed in black and wearing balaclavas, had opened fire on the two men outside a popular shopping centre in the area. Car found burning These sources have since said that it appeared that prior to the shooting a tracker had been planted underneath the car the duo had been travelling in. They said immediately after the double murder, the gunmen had removed what appeared to be a tracker from the car. At the time, police said that the gunmen had fled in a white Hyundai Tucson. In a Facebook post on July 1, a resident posted on a traffic forum that he and his wife had heard a car alarm shortly after midnight in Brentwood Park, Delft. The post said he discovered a vehicle, a white Hyundai Tucson, burning behind his house. According to the resident, it appeared that the car had been hijacked or stolen, and then dumped before being set alight. The Mobsters, a faction of the 28s gang, are known to set cars alight after using the vehicles to carry out crimes. One of their strongholds is Delft. News24 could not immediately confirm if the car that was set alight was the one used in the Pinelands shooting. Asked if this was the case, and whether a tracker had indeed been removed from the car in which the two men were shot, police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said: "Police detectives are following leads in connection with shooting, no new developments to report at this stage." It is understood the Pinelands double killing was a revenge attack of sorts. In June, three men were shot dead in Bishop Lavis. Retaliation expected The triple killing, according to several sources with intimate knowledge of what happened, was linked to an alleged 28s gang boss who has his eye on the drug trade in the city centre. Several sources say the wounding of Stanfield may result in retaliation shootings in Cape Town. Stanfield has previously had brushes with the law. In 2014, he faced charges relating to firearms, but in 2016 these charges were withdrawn. After his 2014 arrest, it was alleged that three police officers from the Central Firearm Registry in Pretoria had created gun licence applications on the police's official computer system. It was alleged that these licences were then issued to gangsters and drug dealers in the Western Cape, including Stanfield. Stanfield was also arrested in March 2015. In that incident, Stanfield was suspected of assaulting a policeman at his mother's Beacon Valley home.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  