Derrick Zincume Photo: Derrick ZincumeKZN Senior Public Prosecutor, Phumzile Nigonyoti speaks at the Youth Month celebration walk in Pinetown. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories THE KZN Senior Public Prosecutor Phumzile Nigonyoti is urging the youth to refrain from using drugs and concentrate on their studies.Nigonyoti was speaking to taxi commuters in the Pinetown CBD during a peaceful walk, organised by the NPA and the SAPS last week. Carrying placards bearing messages, NPA officials and the SAPS walked from Crompton Street to Hill Street which led them to the taxi rank. The walk was led by the SAPS brass brand.He also told the community to stop calling the drug addicts names such as amapara, instead they must assist these young people to quit smoking drugs such as whoonga. We know that the government has a lot of programmes in place to help drugs addicts, but we know that some of these young boys and girls refuse to go to the rehab voluntarily. As the NPA , we have the right to issue a court order to force [drugs addicts] to go into rehab. We can only do that if we get a complaint from a relative or parent of the drug addict. We do this to save lives because we know that when a person is addicted to drugs he or she steals and they might be killed while committing such a crime, he said. Society must say no to drug abuse. This causes instability in families, it leads to women and children abuse. We as the NPA warn our youth that they might find themselves being used to commit crime as they are always looking for easy ways to get money so they can buy drugs, said Nigonyoti .Pinetown SAPS spokesman Captain Bongumusa Manqele also urged residents to visit their police station whenever they need assistance. We have a lot of programmes in place to help drugs addicts and everyone is welcome to visit our police station to seek help," said Manqele.The KZN Congress of South African Trade Unions marched to the Human Rights Commission office in Durban on Friday. The KZN secretary Edwin Mkhize said the aim of the march was to ask the commission to investigate why people fail to respect the law."Our main concern is that even though we are living in a democratic society, we have noted with great concern that our women and children are not free in this country."They are living in fear of being kidnapped, raped and murdered by those who do not respect the law and constitutional right of citizens. Law enforcement agencies and courts are working hard to deal with these perpetrators, but these crimes are coming to an end. Perpetrators are being brought to book, they are found guilty and sentenced, but these killings still continue. These people don t respect a court order, so we need to find out why they don t care, said Mkhize.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.