News24 Correspondent File: AFP Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - As Zimbabwe’s cash crisis worsens, top banking officials say
there are plans to boost a bond note facility, reports said on Sunday. Bond notes were introduced in November backed by a $200 million loan from the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank).
The small denomination notes and coins have no value outside Zimbabwe. Negotiations underway Afreximbank’s president, Benedict Oramah told the private
Standard newspaper at a meeting in Rwanda this week that negotiations are
under way to review the facility. "I think the issue of the incentive being increased is under
discussion," he told the paper at the bank’s AGM in Kigali. "There are people who are working on it," he said,
adding that he was sure "whatever is being requested is within country
limits." Hyper-inflation fears Zimbabwe’s central bank has vowed not to release more than
200 million US dollars’ worth bond notes, fearful of fuelling the kind of
hyper-inflation that forced Zimbabwe to ditch its currency in 2009. Central bank chief John Mangudya told the Standard at the
same meeting that his bank had so far released $160 million worth of
bond notes. "Once the facility that has been given to us has been
exhausted we need to find ways and means of ensuring that we negotiate for more
so that at the end of the day we do not destroy the export generation scheme or
plan," he said. ''A gold standard' The notes are paid out as an incentive to exporters like
tobacco farmers and gold miners, and to Zimbabweans who are sent hard currency
from relatives abroad. "As long as the facilities are there to bank bond notes it’s
more like a gold standard, you issue an instrument that is backed by something
so that it becomes convertible. We can’t just issue something out of a thumb
suck," Mangudya added. The bond notes have done little to ease cash shortages.
Massive queues are visible outside most banks each month-end as depositors
struggle to withdraw cash. The situation is forcing more and more Zimbabweans to turn
to plastic money and electronic transactions. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  