Julian Jansen, Netwerk24 Graeme and Caroline Minne stand outside the Thembalethu Magistrate's Court. (Mossel Bay Advertiser) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town pastor Colin Davids, accused of being behind a Ponzi scheme, appeared in the Bellville Magistrate's Court on Wednesday after being granted R100 000 bail last June. Watch. WATCH George - Justice might have prevailed after a court case of six years, but is still isn't going to bring back his more than R500 000, says Jurie Boshoff, 70, who is one of 900 investors who lost a fortune in a Ponzi scheme. Despite this, Boshoff said he doesn't hate the con artists, Graeme and Caroline Minne, Netwerk24 reported at the weekend. The Mossel Bay couple were found guilty in the Thembalethu Magistrate's Court on Friday of fraud involving R280m. Magistrate Denise Oberholzer also found guilty them guilty of contravening the Bank Act. With the fraudulent income from Minne Opleiding/Training, they led an opulent lifestyle and had properties of R6m in Mossel Bay and R4m at Hartenbos. Warning The customised number plate on Minne's black Lamborghini read "UNREAL". Perhaps that should've been a warning to investors. According to the Mossel Bay Advertiser, Oberholzer said in her ruling that Graeme Minne blamed everyone except himself for the collapse of the pyramid scheme. "You even blamed the Reserve Bank." After the Minnes were warned that they were contravening the Bank Act and that an investigation had been launched, they still went ahead with their scheme and conned another R3m out of investors. Their victims lived along the Garden Route and as far as Gauteng. The couple invested investors' money in a pyramid scheme, claiming that the money would be used for share trading on international markets. Investors were promised a monthly 4% return or 65% annually. Boshoff, who hails from Hartenbos, told Rapport that he was at court on Friday July 21 for the verdict. "We've written off the money. But we don't bear grudges. It's all water under the bridge." Boshoff and his wife Alet (66) had moved to Hartenbos to retire. 'Life of opulence' Between 2002 and 2009 word spread that the Minne couple, described as "devout Christians", could perform "miracles" with one's money overseas. The Boshoffs invested R600 000 with the Minne couple and earned interest for three months. Then, all of a sudden, silence - Minne didn't take their calls. The Boshoffs had to drastically change their lifestyle to survive. Alet at one stage went to Minne's house to warn him: "God doesn't sleep." Another investor, Betsie Briers, 74, also from Hartenbos, lost R100 000. She was also at court on July 21. "I want them to be jailed for the rest of their lives. They don't deserve better because they hurt so many people and families," she told a journalist from the Son tabloid. "You should have seen their life of opulence: That with other people's money." The couple on July 21 tried avoiding the media by slipping out of the court via a back door and driving off in a maroon Corsa Lite car. They are still out on bail of R100 000 and have to report to the Dagamaskop police station on Mondays and Fridays. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  