Varsity College alumni at the KZN VC Alumni Connect evening.PHOTO: SUPPLIED Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories MORE than 80 alumni recently attended the Independent Institution of Education (IEC) Varsity College Alumni Connect evening, hosted for the first time in KwaZulu-Natal by the three IIE Varsity College KZN campuses. The aim of the event, the first step in building an IIE Varsity College KZN regional alumni community, was to give alumni an opportunity to network and connect. Celeste Grant, IIE Varsity College Westville career centre co-ordinator, welcomed alumni from the Durban North, Westville and Pietermaritzburg campuses. Lucie Bowyer, Durban North career centre co-ordinator, introduced the keynote speaker, who was John Hawthorne (CCI South Africa director). His speech focused on “Where to from here?” There was a breakaway session where Claudine Aboobaker, the Pietermaritzburg career centre co-ordinator, hosted fun ice-breakers and networking games with the alumni. Lucky draws were also part of the evening and three lucky winners walked away with gift vouchers. “The first KZN VC Alumni Connect evening was a great success. What emerged from this event was the desire of our alumni to build a community in which former students will be able to support each other as they grow and progress in their careers. We hope to host many more such events in the future,” said Bowyer. Alumni Rowen David said: “I was greatly impressed by the effort and quality of the event. It is great to be a part of the VC community again.” Varsity College invited graduates who completed their studies between 2009 and 2016. All Varsity College alumni are encouraged to stay in contact with other VC alumni by completing the alumni community contact form on the Varsity College website https://www.varsitycollege.co.za/alumni.aspx or e-mail alumni@varsitycollege.co.za — Supplied. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  