Jeanette Chabalala, News24 Former Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza. (Antonio Muchave, Gallo Images, Sowetan) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - There should be transparency and public participation in the upcoming appointments of the national police commissioner and the head of the hawks, Corruption Watch and the Institute for Security Studies (ISS) said. Corruption Watch and ISS launched a joint public awareness campaign at the Constitutional Hill in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. The campaign focuses on the appointments of the national police commissioner and the head of hawks. Head of the Justice and Violence Prevention Programme at the ISS Gareth Newham said corruption in government and private sectors had run "rampant". "One of the results of the president's appointment [is] of people without the requisite skills, expertise, experience and integrity for key criminal justice positions," Newham said. "Our previous minister of police appointed a man already found by a judge to lack honour and integrity as the head of the Hawks." READ: Ntlemeza's application to interdict Mbalula struck off the roll Public interviews He was referring to dismissed Hawks head Lieutenant-General Berning Ntlemeza, whose appointment was set aside in March by the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. Newham was joined by former heard of the director of public prosecution Advocate Vusi Pikoli who said the court's decision to set aside Ntlemeza's appointment was not a "nice" experience for the country. "Constitutional values were not taken into account when he [Ntlemeza] was appointed," Pikoli said. READ: Ntlemeza's daughter makes more threats He said the request for public involvement on who should be appointed was not to water down the powers that the president enjoys. Some of the proposed appointment process includes public interviews of shortlisted candidates by a panel, scoring of shortlisted candidates by the panel and the agreement of a maximum of five candidates for each post. In March, the court found that then-police minister Nathi Nhleko had ignored two court judgments which had found the Hawks boss lacked integrity and honesty when he was appointed. The court found that the findings in both judgments constituted "direct evidence" that Ntlemeza lacked the requisite honesty, integrity and conscientiousness to hold public office. Ntlemeza applied for leave to appeal these findings, but he was unsuccessful. He was then granted leave to appeal an enforcement order which stopped him from going to work. In June, the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein rejected Ntlemeza's appeal to be reinstated. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  