Caryn Dolley, News24 The Plattekloof home of businessman Nafiz Modack was, according to him, burgled on Friday. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Businessman Nafiz Modack, who is said to be heading up a new underworld faction taking over club security, claims corrupt police officers burgled his home in Plattekloof on Friday and stole various items and cash. He informally offered R1m for information about what happened, claiming that "high sensitive classified documents" were stolen from his safe. Modack told News24 the documents contained "big names on it" such as that of generals and officials. He said police vans were used in the incident. He said a silent alarm was triggered and the burglars fled. Modack said security cameras were deactivated. His attorney Bruce Hendricks confirmed the burglary. He told News24 nothing illegal was found in the house. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andrè Traut confirmed that a police operation was conducted at a residence in Plattekloof earlier on Friday. "Any person with a complaint in this regard is encouraged to report the matter to the Parow police so that the allegations can be investigated," he said. Modack is said to be heading a new faction taking over club security from a more established grouping. The tussle for club security has resulted in several shootings over the past few months. In one of the most recent incidents, an alleged 28s gang leader was wounded in a drive-by shooting in Johannesburg. In May, News24 witnessed Modack meet with Northern Cape police commissioner Risimati Shivuri in an upmarket Cape Town hotel. It was not clear what the two had been discussing. When News24 had asked Modack, via email, what the meeting had been about, he replied in a threatening tone and sent the reporter a photograph of herself at the hotel where he met Shivuri. He later apologised. (Supplied)  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  