Maygene de Wee, Netwerk24  Matie student Hannah Cornelius. (Netwerk24)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – For the first time, Cheslin Marsh came face to face with the four men who allegedly kidnapped him and his friend Hannah Cornelius in May.  The men are accused of raping and murdering Cornelius, Netwerk24 reported on Friday.  Vernon Witbooi, Geraldo Parsons, Nashwill Julies and Eben van Niekerk appeared in the Stellenbosch Magistrate’s Court on Friday on charges of kidnapping, assault, rape, and murder.  Members of the public and the accused were unaware that the 21-year-old Matie attended court proceedings. Shortly before the case was set to be heard, members of the public were asked to leave the court. A court official said proceedings would be held in camera. Members of the public were allowed back into court after a few minutes. As people tried to get back in, Cheslin’s mother Marilyn Marsh slipped out of court unnoticed. Magistrate Mia Brag postponed the case to September 28 for further investigation. She said DNA results were still outstanding.  Wild police chase Cornelius and Marsh were hijacked on in Bird Street, Stellenbosch, where they were sitting in her VW Citi Golf in front of a block of flats, on the morning of Saturday, May 27. Her body was found shortly after 08:30 on the farm Groenhof, near the Knorhoek Road outside Stellenbosch.  The four men allegedly assaulted Marsh in Kraaifontein, where they left him for dead. Parsons and Witbooi were arrested on the Saturday afternoon after a wild police chase. They appeared in the Stellenbosch Magistrate’s Court on Monday, May 29 on charges of kidnapping, vehicle theft, robbery with aggravating circumstances, rape, and murder.  Julies was arrested on the Sunday. He appeared in court on the Tuesday on charges of murder, attempted murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances, and kidnapping.  Van Niekerk is accused of murder, attempted murder, vehicle theft, robbery with aggravating circumstances, kidnapping, and rape.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  