Jeanette Chabalala, News24 Dawie de Villiers in court. (Mpho Raborife, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - Former model boss Dawie de Villiers, who was found guilty of sexual assault, believes he should never have been convicted of the crimes, his lawyer said on Monday. Dressed in a black suit and blue shirt, with sun glasses on his forehead, De Villiers appeared in an almost empty courtroom in the High Court in Johannesburg on Monday. His legal representative, Riaan Greyling, told the court that De Villiers needed outstanding transcripts in order to appeal his conviction. "He still wants his freedom," he said. Greyling said his client also needed notes from his previous attorney in order to prepare for the sentencing and for his appeal. Head of transcripts Vicky Ferreira had earlier testified that they were doing everything in their power to get the outstanding documents finalised. De Villiers' sentencing has been postponed a number of times. Prosecutor Arveena Persad told Judge Cassim Moosa that the court should be fair to the State and the accused. She said the court was "leaning on the side of the accused, and [it] has been granting [numerous] postponements". Persad said it was not in the interest of justice to delay the matter any further. His trial started in August 2015. Judge Moosa ruled that there should be no further postponement in the case. De Villiers is expected back in court on September 12 for pre-sentencing. In February, De Villiers was found guilty on 32 of 38 charges, including raping a child, sexual assault, fraud, exposing children to pornography, and accessing child pornography. ALSO READ: Model agency boss guilty of 32 sex-related charges The court found he was a poor witness and that his version of events had too many contradictions. One of the minors had testified that De Villiers had asked her to take off her clothes in front of him. He claimed she was only engaged in method acting. De Villiers said he did not stop her from taking off her clothes, as it was sensual and sexy, and he thought she wanted to do it. The court accepted the minor's testimony. De Villiers claimed the State witnesses had lied and conspired with M-Net's Carte Blanche programme to harm his reputation and that of his modelling agency.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  