News24 Correspondent  Robert Jr and Bellarmine Chatunga Mugabe. (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - Zimbabwe First Lady Grace Mugabe has had to make an
emergency trip to South Africa to secure accommodation for her two sons. This emerged at the weekend, after Grace missed a
rally in Masvingo where her husband was drumming up support from youths for his
2018 presidential bid. President Robert Mugabe relayed a message from his wife to thousands of
supporters at the Friday rally. 'Secure accommodation' "I wanted to be there with you at this meeting but the
emergency in South Africa could not allow me to return on time since I have to
make sure my children have secure accommodation," the private Daily News quoted
the president as saying in Shona.  Mugabe’s two sons, Robert Junior and Bellarmine Chatunga
were reported to have relocated to South Africa early this year, Robert from
Dubai and Chatunga from Harare.   They’re understood to now be studying in Johannesburg,
although it’s not clear where. One thing is certain: whatever lodgings their mother does
find for them won’t be humble. Swanky villa Early this year, independent press reports said the Mugabes
were paying half a million US dollars per year to rent a villa for Robert
Junior in Dubai’s plush Emirates Hills suburb.  Top ruling party officials are often criticised for sending
their children to South Africa or abroad to study, instead of supporting local
universities and colleges. This week hundreds of medical students at the University of
Zimbabwe were evicted from their halls of residence in Harare after some of
them staged a demonstration over fees they say are unaffordable. Many were forced to sleep out in the open or take shelter at
a local church. They have since been allowed back into their rooms after rights
lawyers went to the High Court to overturn the evictions. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  