Robert Jr and Bellarmine Chatunga Mugabe. (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabwean First
Lady Grace Mugabe has reportedly admitted that her two sons – Robert Junior and
Chatunga Bellarmine – have become wild and have taken to beer binges and drugs. According to NewsDay,
Grace said that her two sons were giving her "sleepless nights".  The Mugabe sons made
headlines recently after they were evicted from a luxury apartment block in
Johannesburg’s affluent Sandton area because of their "unacceptable behavior".  The boys had been renting a luxury
apartment at The Regent apartment hotel, in Morningside, Sandton. "The boys were usually up during the
night partying with different ladies, drinking and smoking," one unnamed
resident was quoted as saying at the time. "There
were almost daily complaints by other tenants about the noise coming from
apartment 601 (the Mugabes' apartment)." 'I've turned to God for wisdom' Grace, who spoke during her
sister's birthday party in Shamva over the weekend, claimed that demons were at
play, destroying children everywhere, a New Zimbabwe.com report said. "Nowadays there are
spirits attacking our children. The spirit of drinking, drug abuse and doing
other abnormal things way beyond their age," the First lady was
quoted as saying.    "I am telling you because
the behaviour of children does not matter if they are the president's children
or not. All children are mischievous these days. Grace urged parents not to
give up on their children when they became wild, but to soldier on and have
faith in God, New Zimbabwe said. "I have turned to God for
wisdom. I ask the Lord for intervention and pray everyday when I wake up," Grace said.  Grace's sons relocated to South Africa
from Harare and Dubai earlier this
year.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  