Julian Jansen, Netwerk24 Donald Haasbroek and Duke. (Netwerk24)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A farmer in Hoopstad, Free State, has gone to extreme lengths to protect his family and property from the scourge of farm murders in the area. Watch. WATCH George - The family of a Southern Cape dairy farmer were dealt a double shock when their loved one not only died of a massive heart attack, but his half-blind and elderly dog also apparently ate his private parts. Netwerk24 reported that Donald Haasbroek, 66, manager of the dairy farm Dagbreek outside George, was found in his bathroom last Friday with his T-shirt over his head. Police spokesperson Captain Malcolm Potje said a murder dossier was lodged, but "the preliminary post mortem investigation does not indicate a crime". He said the dossier would be closed if the final post mortem examination concluded the same. Haasbroek's son, Wynand, told Rapport that his father hadn't been well during the past few months.  "He died of a massive heart attack," Wynand said. Last Wednesday Donald took his wife Mimi to the bus stop from where she and the Southern Cape Children's Choir left for to Cape Town.According to Wynand, his father, "neatly dressed in his town clothes", dropped his mom off and then had lunch around 13:30. "Farmworkers saw him at the office. He would afterwards always watch television and doze a little. Later he would put on 'milking clothes'." The following afternoon he hadn’t shown up at the milk stables. When he didn’t make an appearance at 04:30 the next day, one of Wynand's workers called. Wynand lives in Cape Town. He told Rapport that he’d received the call just before 06:00 last week Friday, picked up his mom and drove to George. Dog behaviour He found his father still on the bathroom floor and with great shock also discovered his private parts were gone. According to Wynand, the T-shirt which was over his father's head was not strange. "According to the pathologists, he would have been distressed as a result of the heart attack and would have been perspiring profusely. He fell backwards and knocked his head. " Wynand and his mother first started making sense of the missing private parts a little later. He read on the internet about dog behaviour, he said. Donald had a 14-year-old Bull Terrier, Duke, who is half-blind and completely deaf. The dog had followed him like a shadow. "They were inseparable. Duke probably wanted to wake him up and licked my dad’s private parts. “Dogs have rough tongues and this could probably have caused it to bleed.”  According to Wynand the police found bite marks around the wound, which confirmed this.   Duke will stay on at Dagbreek farm with Mimi, Wynand told Rapport.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  