Nompilo Kunene, The Witness Rubble is all that remains after a fire gutted one of the apartments at the KwaNgcobo flats on Wednesday night. The flats’ caretaker Henley Sibisi said more safety measures will be implemented to prevent a similar incident in future.  (Nompilo Kunene) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A flat near Edendale Hospital was gutted by fire on Wednesday night. One of the top-floor apartments at the double-storey complex, popularly know as KwaNgcobo, caught fire allegedly after a candle was left unattended. A resident at the flats, Xolani Sibisi, was the first person who saw the fire and alerted the other residents. “At around 11 pm I started smelling smoke. I stepped out of my flat and noticed that the entire corridor was engulfed in smoke. I started screaming ‘Fire!’ to wake up everyone,” he said. Sibisi said there was no one in the burning flat and residents had to break the door down to get in and try to stop the fire from spreading. The caretaker of the flats, Henley Sibisi, said no one was injured and that the fire department was able to extinguish the blaze before it damaged the neighbouring flats. “The flat where the fire started is totally gutted, there’s nothing left,” he said. The caretaker said they were able to establish that the fire was not a result of an electric fault. He said the flat that was set alight was temporarily without electricity. “I suspect that the fire was sparked by a candle that was left unattended but we will investigate further and put in more safety measures to prevent a similar incident in future,” he said. Thembelani Sithole, who is also a neighbour to the flat that was gutted, said he and his family had found another place to stay in as their flat was also damaged. “Our roof is burnt, there is smoke residue on the walls and some of our furniture is damaged. “We have decided to move out as I have two young children and we cannot continue living in the damaged flat,” said Sithole. The tenant of the gutted flat was not available for comment. Another resident said she was too traumatised to face other people. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  