News24 Correspondent iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare - Zimbabwe is considering legalising the production of
cannabis for medical purposes to lure investors keen to grow the drug, a
cabinet minister says. Investment Promotion Minister Obert Mpofu says a Canadian
firm has applied to the government for a permit to produce the drug, known
locally as mbanje, in one of the country’s soon-to-be-set-up Special Economic
Zones (SEZs). Numerous inquiries "We have received numerous inquiries from investors who want
to participate in the SEZs and one of them is a big international company that
wants to be involved in the production of cannabis," Mpofu was quoted as saying
by the state-run Sunday News. Zimbabwe is in the process of setting up SEZs, initially in
Harare, Bulawayo and Victoria Falls. The zones will offer investors incentives,
including exemption from some provisions of the labour law and black economic
empowerment rules. Big business Mpofu told the paper that he thought the Canadian firm,
which he didn’t name, was joking when he first received an inquiry from them.
That was before he realised that medical cannabis production was big business. "This company is from Canada and it’s one of the biggest
conglomerates in that country and they are producing cannabis for medical
purposes under strict conditions," he said. Punishable by jail "I don’t see anything wrong and I think if we legalise
(production of) mbanje we will benefit medically because it is used for pain
killers such as morphine," he added. Under Zimbabwe’s laws the possession or cultivation of
cannabis is illegal, punishable by jail. In 2015 a Harare man – who was found by police to be growing
small quantities of marijuana at home, apparently to treat a rare bone ailment
- was jailed for 12 months, according to The Herald. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  