Jan Cronje. News24 Correspondent  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - An online fundraising drive to help pay the medical costs for a three-year-old Athlone girl and her grandfather, who were mauled by dogs, has reached R172 000 in just a month, almost 70% of its target goal of R250 000.  Emma Murphy, 3 and her grandfather Aubrey, 56, were mauled by a neighbour's dogs in late June. READ: Man attacked by dogs while trying to protect a 3-year-old She has since had to undergo numerous operations.  Family friend and spokesperson Paula-Jane Pinkham, who has been providing regular updates on Emma via her Facebook page, started the fundraising drive on June 27.  "We can break records and get this family back on their feet. Beautiful beautiful Emma (and family) we are rooting for you," she wrote at the time. She started the campaign to raise money to help the Murphy family out financially.  "With severe injuries to her little body and a very long road to full recovery, we are embarking on this campaign to ease some of the financial pressure off Emma's dedicated, yet distraught, parents." The campaign has been raising an average of almost R6 000 a day.  At this rate, it will reach the goal of raising R250 000 in roughly two weeks. The funds are managed by BackaBuddy, a South African online fundraising service.   Back to school On Wednesday Pinkham wrote that Emma had returned to school for the first time since the attack, with her twin sister Kate.  "While she still has her vacuum bandaging and machine attached to her, it is difficult for her to partake fully in the daily activities, but how wonderful for her to be able to sit and interact with her peers again," Pinkham said. "Her amazing teachers even let her have a tractor ride in the garden, with the vacuum machine sitting snugly in the trailer. She fitted right in and loved it. Kate was so happy to have her sister with her again." Emma is not back at school full time, however. "They are seeing how she goes," said Pinkham. "But just even two days a week will help her so much."  Pinkham said that while the fund was doing well, costs were also high.  She said the family's medical costs were set to continue for at least 18 months.  "With a slight glimpse at costs of the last month and going forward, we need for this to continue to grow," she said. - See the campaign here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  