Jeanne-Mari Versluis, Netwerk24Pretoria - A son of paedophile Gert van Rooyen is on the run after allegedly committing fraud.Members of the Wonderboompoort police said they were looking for Gerhard van Rooyen, who uses the alias Gerrit Cornelius van Rhyn, Netwerk24 reported on Tuesday. &nbsp;&nbsp;He is wanted on several charges of fraud, police said on Monday In March 2013, Van Rooyen apparently advertised in newspapers and on Facebook that he was renting out a house. He included his contact details. Police are searching for Gerhard van Rooyen, also known as Gerrit Cornelius van Rhyn. (Netwerk24)"When they contacted him, he was said to have asked them to deposit money into his account. To make sure that he couldn't be traced, he apparently asked for the money to be deposited into a co-conspirator&rsquo;s account before vanishing. "In other cases he sold a vehicle and asked for intended buyers to pay the money into his friend&rsquo;s account. As soon as the money had been deposited, he disappeared again," police said.Police claim that Van Rooyen in 2013 asked an unsuspecting member of the public to pay R12 000 into his wife, Elana Goes's, account. &nbsp;'A series of crimes'"In another case he pretended to sell a car and a Klerksdorp woman paid R30 000 into one of his false accounts," the police said.Van Rooyen was arrested in Gansbaai in March 2017 after the Benoni Magistrate's Court issued a warrant for his arrest. &nbsp;He was later released on bail of R8 000. His bail conditions were that he report to the Villieria police in Pretoria every Wednesday and never leave Gauteng without informing the Villieria police or the court.However, he has been on the run since then and "continued to commit a series of crimes", the police claim.People who might know where Van Rooyen is have been asked to contact Warrant Officer Lourens Lemmer at 081 531 3785 or 012 335 2818.*&nbsp;Six girls disappeared between August 1988 and November 1989 in what has been one of South Africa's baffling crimes.Gert van Rooyen, of Capital Park in Pretoria, was connected to the disappearances, but never arrested.In 1990, Van Rooyen shot dead his girlfriend, Joey Haarhoff, before committing suicide in his bakkie during a high-speed chase by police.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.