News24 Correspondent  (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - The IMF has issued a bleak
assessment of Zimbabwe’s economic situation, and advised that government
spending on wages and agriculture are unsustainable.  Most of Zimbabwe’s budget goes
on paying civil servants, and this week the government unveiled plans to fund
the 2017-18 agriculture season to the tune of half a billion US dollars. Unsustainable support "The expenditure profile tilted
towards employment costs and unsustainable agricultural support is inhibiting
investments in other priority sectors," the IMF said in a statement late on Friday.  On the streets, the effects of
Zimbabwe’s economic downturn are visible in the painfully long queues outside
most banks as depositors struggle to withdraw money. Bond notes, a quasi-currency
with an official rate equal to the US dollar, were issued last November to ease
cash shortages but have failed to do that. Restore currency confidence In its statement, the IMF board
warned the government to restore currency confidence to safeguard Zimbabwe’s
fragile financial sector. "Bank asset concentration on
non liquid central bank deposits and treasury bills has increased financial
sector fragility. The extensive use of quasi currency instruments exacerbates
this fragility," it noted.  Zimbabwe's bond notes are
backed by a $200 million loan from the Cairo-based Afreximbank and
officials have said Harare may soon borrow more, which could result in more
bond notes. Social tensions  But in its medium-term outlook,
the IMF warned of the consequences of the not cutting spending: "The government
would have to finance the deficits by expanding the (central bank) overdraft,
issuing Treasury-bills, and supplying bond notes at an increasingly high
cost."  It said this would fuel shortages and inflation. "The
deteriorating situation would exert a heavier toll on the most vulnerable. The
resulting growth slowdown and collapse in confidence could lead to financial
sector distress and social tensions," it added.   'A bad currency' In an editorial on Friday, the
respected financial weekly, the Zimbabwe Independent labelled bond notes "a bad
currency". "As everyone has seen, bond
notes, far from solving the cash crunch, have actually facilitated the mopping
up of US dollars, leaving the market high and dry," it said. "Printing more bond notes will
only stoke the fires of inflation…. What is needed is fiscal discipline,
enhanced productivity, far-reaching reforms and political change." 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  