Lizeka Tandwa, News24 School desks. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Placement of learners has commenced in Gauteng, the Department of Education in the province said. The department said parents would receive offers of placement by SMS soon and urged them to either accept or reject the offer within seven days. The placement period would close on October 30. "Parents are urged to respond to the placement offer by either accepting or rejecting it," spokesperson Oupa Bodibe said. Those who did not receive an SMS before the end of August are urged not to panic. "Districts are working with schools to sign off and verify [the] final list of admission per school. This process was delayed by the winter school holidays." "However, they should contact the district if no SMS notification has been received after three weeks from today," he said on Tuesday, July 25. Parents whose applications had been declined were allowed to lodge their objection with the districts. Out of more than 2 690 000 applications received by the department in June, the total number of non-South African citizens who had applied was 12 684, Bodibe said. Parents and learners who had outstanding documents in their applications would be kept in a database by the schools. "When incomplete documents are submitted and the parent submits proof of application from [the] Department of Home Affairs, schools will accept learners provisionally," Bodibe said. Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi thanked Gauteng residents for an overwhelming response to the online admissions. "The early processing of admissions means that learning and teaching can commence on the first day of the 2018 academic calendar," Lesufi added. The department experienced glitches when it launched its first online system, as parents had trouble securing spots. The application system is open to pupils applying for Grade 1 and Grade 8.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  