Selloane Khalane, Netwerk24 David Mahlobo at the ANC policy conference at Nasrec in Johannesburg. (Deann Vivier, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The death penalty will not be brought back. This after the ANC's peace and stability commission rejected calls it had received from especially its Women's League to reintroduce capital punishment for those who murder women and children, Netwerk24 reported on Wednesday. State Security Minister David Mahlobo said at a news conference on Tuesday night at the party's policy conference at Nasrec, Johannesburg, that a "solid legal system" would be necessary to prevent hanging people who are not guilty. Some members of the ANCWL had wanted the death penalty reintroduced to stop the increasing number of women and children being murdered.   Mahlobo said despite the conference having rejected the request, the commission was in favour of heavier penalties for those found guilty of these crimes. The commission suggested that South Africa start implementing international agreements and repatriate some of the 6 440 foreigners doing time in the country's overcrowded jails. However, those guilty of serious crimes, will not be repatriated.   Mahlobo said the commission also suggested that the immigration policy be revised and intensified in order to ensure stricter border control. "We need a reliable data base to know who is in the country," he said. Mahlobo said the commission also suggested that legislation with regard to bail, witness protection and less serious crimes be adapted to expedite investigations and prosecution. Another suggestion was that some laws be changed, as well as the introduction of a modern system to prevent dossiers going missing. The parole system also had to be revisited. The commission is of the opinion that while the private security industry had a role to play, the matter of foreign ownership, espionage and the exploitation of workers was a concern. The commission suggested that military veterans be used to provide private security services. Another suggestion was that a separate department of military veterans be established by 2018.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  