News24 Correspondent  iStock 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare - In a sign of just how hazardous it is to support the
opposition with elections looming in Zimbabwe, a war veteran has been disowned
by his colleagues and ordered to vacate his farm after going to an MDC rally,
it was reported Sunday. NewZimbabwe.com reports that Regis Musengeyi landed himself
in trouble for attending the rally addressed by MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai in
the central town of Gweru last month.  'A traitor' "Musengeyi was issued with eviction orders by the local
Zanu-PF and war veteran leadership on charges of being a traitor," reports
the news website. The war vet is reported to have served in the eastern Wedza
district during the country's 1970s bush war to defeat white minority rule.
Under President Robert Mugabe's land reform programme, he received a plot at
Cotter Farm along with other war veterans in Mashonaland East province. Now he's been disowned by his colleagues, who dispute his
role in the war. War vet Wilson Chingarare told a recent ruling Zanu-PF
meeting: "He was never a part of the freedom fighters who operated in
Wedza where I was the detachment commander...He is a fake as I know everyone
who operated in Wedza at the time." Introduced at MDC rally Musengeyi apparently attended Tsvangirai's rally in Gweru's
Mkoba stadium in June, when he was introduced as a former independence war fighter,
accordig to NewZimbabwe.com. Private press reports at the time said that eight war
veterans and former collaborators who had left Zanu-PF were introduced at that
rally. Tsvangirai told supporters that "it was important for
both the ruling Zanu-PF and war veterans to remember that the fight for
independence was a collaborative effort between ordinary people and freedom
fighters," according to the Daily News. Elections are due in Zimbabwe in 2018, with signs Mugabe,
93, will turn to ruling Zanu-PF youth to galvanise support for him. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  