Jenni Evans, News24(File, Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A taxi driver appeared in the Simonstown Magistrate's Court on Wednesday for the rape of a grieving relative of 18-year-old Chimicka Cornberg.According to prosecutor Chloe Morris, the man gave the woman a lift when she was on her way to help with preparations, following Cornberg's death in a southern suburb of Cape Town."She was grieving because... she had just died," said Morris, reading from the charge sheet.She had accepted a Hunter's Dry cider that he offered her, and they had decided to go and get something stronger to drink. After some time, she fell asleep."When she woke up, he was on top of her, raping her," Morris said. The accused, standing in court with his jersey tucked into his jeans, appeared to have difficulty understanding proceedings.Magistrate Crystal McKenna checked whether he wanted to continue in English, and he said he would.The case was stood down for a short period for his lawyer to prepare an affidavit to submit for his bail application, as McKenna refused to violate court rules and continue without it. He was later released and is due back in court on August 5. It was not yet clear how much he had paid for bail. 'She lived for a little bit, but then she died'A relative of Chimicka Cornberg confirmed that it was another relative who was raped.Her name may not be published, and his name can only be made public once he has pleaded at a later stage in proceedings. The relative said she was shocked by what had happened to the woman. "She knows the guy. They live in the same street. That's the reason why she took the lift." Eighteen-year-old Chimicka was having a sleepover on Friday night with her friend, who lived a block away from her mother's house. Chimicka was sleeping at the bottom of a double bunk when her mother went out to buy something on Saturday morning.Abrahams said that she had heard that the friend's boyfriend, who she did not know, had asked if Chimicka was awake.Chimicka's friend went to check on her and found her dead in the bed, with a gunshot wound to the head."She lived for a little bit, but then she died," said the relative.Police are still investigating. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.