Nation Nyoka, News24Road closed. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A meeting between the housing department and the Imizamo Yethu steering committee has been set for Monday at 10.00, Cape Town safety and security director Richard Bosman said on Saturday evening, adding that the matter is still unresolved.The meeting comes as protests rocked the informal settlement near Cape Town on Saturday."The steercom is made up of a group of community leaders from the areas affected by the fires, and they are insisting that the mayor be present at the meeting to address their concerns," Bosman told News24.All roads in and out of Hout Bay are still closed - except for Constantia Nek and Victoria Road via Llandudno - due to an ongoing protest by disgruntled residents in the informal settlement of Imizamo Yethu, according to traffic officials of the City of Cape Town.Bosman said the protest was over a lack of electricity and decent formal housing, which had allegedly been promised by Mayor Patricia de Lille to those displaced by a devastating fire in the area a few months ago.Protesters claim they were promised better housing within three months of the fire.READ: Over 2 000 left homeless in Hout Bay fireIn March, a huge fire tore through Imizamo Yethu, destroying hundreds of homes and leaving thousands of residents displaced. Those displaced are currently staying at an interim housing area on Hout Bay's sports field. Where is the leadership? Where are the answers? #HoutBay #HoutBayProtests Photograph by @Vincentraffray More at https://t.co/L2gFK0TiL4 pic.twitter.com/goOvu94XDySpokesperson for Traffic Services, Maxine Bezuidenhout, said that, according to her knowledge, MyCiti and Golden Arrow services were still suspended following the service delivery protests that flared up on Saturday morning in the suburb, leading to road closures as tyres and rubbish bins were set alight. A set of traffic light was also set alight.The alternative route out of Hout Bay, via Chapman's Peak Drive, was still closed due to rock falls that have caused safety concerns over the past three weeks.Bezuidenhout told News24 that there was still a heavy police presence in the area.#MyCiTiAlerts Routes 108 and 109 have been suspended until further notice, due to protest action.Route 108 runs from Hangberg to Adderley Street, and route 109 runs from Imizamo Yethu to the city centre.You guys - avoid traveling into Houtbay via Constantia Nek. Blocked off at the circle (La Parada) No entry. Massive back up #CapeTownTrafficProtesters in Hout Bay dispersed by Police pic.twitter.com/SfKgsZEZipCommunity leaders earlier appealed to the incensed protesters to disperse, but they continued to set structures alight, leading to police firing teargas and stun grenades to disperse the determined crowd. Frustrated commuters were left stranded in the town as roads were blocked, with many being warned not to drive in and around the area as angry protesters stoned cars.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.