Nompilo Kunene, The Witness Ayabonga Ngobese pictured holding a certificate of academic excellence in Grade 4 that he received from his school last year. ‘He was a respectful and smart boy. He was all ready for school and excited about going back today,’ said his mother, Nozipho. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     An Imbali family have been left devastated after returning from church on Sunday to find their 10-year-old child lying dead with a gunshot wound to his chest. It appears he was the victim of a brutal home invasion robbery. Mambrie Ngobese, the grandmother of Ayabonga Ngobese, told The Witness that they found Ayabonga lying in a pool of blood in one of the bedrooms and rushed him to the Mbalenhle Clinic where he was declared dead.  “Our child had just returned from Sunday school. Who kills such a young child?” said Ngobese. Ngobese said every Sunday Ayabonga, who is the only child at the Ngobese home, attends Sunday school at a nearby church at 8 am and returns home at around 9.30 am when the family elders leave for the main church service. “We met him along the way as we were walking to church and gave him the house keys and reminded him to lock the gate as always.  “We did not know we were seeing him for the last time,” said Ngobese. She said when she, her sister, Ayabonga’s mother and her younger sister came home at around noon for lunch they were shocked to find the gate unlocked. “Ayabonga always locks the gate so it was quite strange to find it open,” she said. She said they found the front door locked and shouted for Ayabonga to open the door but there was no response. They all then went to the back door and found it wide open. “The two bedrooms were ransacked. There were open handbags and purses on the beds and the cupboards were wide open. “We found Ayabonga in the bedroom lying face down on the floor with blood coming out of his nose,” said Ngobese. She said they started screaming and called for the neighbours to help. “No one wanted to believe that he was gone so we took him to the clinic where the doctor told us he was already dead. “The doctor had to undress him to see that he had a gun wound on his chest,” she said. She said the police found two bullet cartridges in the bedroom. Ngobese said one of the neighbours told the family that she saw Ayabonga opening the gate and walking into his home accompanied by an unknown man.  The neighbours said they did not hear any gunshots. Ayabonga’s mother, Nozipho Ngobese, said she was traumatised after losing her only child in such a horrible manner. “He was a respectful and smart boy. He was all ready for school and excited about going back today.  “Ever since he started Grade 1 at Berg Street Primary he was always awarded academic trophies and certificates. “I hope the killer is found and locked up for this horrible deed,” said Nozipho. Plessislaer police spokesperson Captain Musa Ntombela confirmed the incident and said a case of murder was opened and police are investigating the matter.  No one has been arrested as yet. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  