Thabang Mathebula, The Witness School Governing Body chairperson Ncamsile Mbatha (front) and a parent, Zonke Radebe (back), with her son Siphesihle Radebe, who is a Grade 12 pupil at the school, picking up the pieces after the suspected arson blaze ravaged Mtholangqondo Secondary School administration block yesterday morning, leaving the principal’s office completely gutted. INSET: The charred remains of the school clerk’s office.  (Thabang Mathebula) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Crucial documents belonging to the Mtholangqondo Secondary School in the Vulindlela area were destroyed when the school’s administration block caught fire on Wednesday morning. The school principal’s office, where most of the school’s important records and documents had been stored, was completely gutted, with the office of the school clerk only suffering minimal damage. It was not clear on Wednesday how much damage the blaze caused. A staff member at the school, who asked not to be named, said everything stored in the principal’s office had been lost and further inspection would determine the extent of the damage. A neighbour noticed the fire just before 6 am and informed the principal and other members of the School Governing Body (SGB). Residents living in the vicinity used sand and buckets of water in an attempt to douse the blaze. The school suspended Wednesday’s winter school lessons but these are expected to resume On Thursday. The school’s SGB chairperson Ncamsile Mbatha said the lack of a proper school fence remains a serious concern. She called on the Department of Education to speed up the process to provide fencing at the school premises and to maximise security measures as the school has suffered several burglaries recently when schools are closed and during weekends. “They break in and steal computers and other office machinery or just destroy everything and leave it in a chaotic state,” Mbatha. Mbatha said she believes that someone had tried break into the offices but failed and decided to set the school alight. “Safety here has been a serious concern for a long time and the department is not doing enough to help us, despite our many attempts to apply for the school to be fenced.” While the cause of the fire remains subject to investigation, members of the community are not ruling out the possibility of sabotage. Msunduzi fireman David Chilliba said the preliminary investigation indicated that the fire was deliberate but there was no substantial evidence to support it. “We suspected arson and called in local police to make further investigations into the matter. There was no indication that it could have been an electrical fault. When we arrived some members of the community had already managed to contain the spread of the fire, ” said Chilliba. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  