Julian Jansen, Netwerk24 Lizane Louw. (Supplied, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - It was paradise for two South African photographers: the sunshine, white beaches and the azure sea of the Kuta beach in Bali. Lizane Louw, 40, of Langebaan and Gita Claassen, 29, from Prince Albert sank into their beach chairs and sipped their (non-alcoholic) drinks from coconut shells. Little did they know, their drinks had been spiked, Netwerk24 reported. Now, Louw and Claassen believe that they were lucky that something bad didn't happen to them. The incident happened about two weeks ago. It was Claassen’s first trip overseas and she wanted to have a drink from a coconut. The women paid the equivalent of R97 for the drinks and beach chairs at a stall next to the beach. It tasted sour to Claassen, but she thought it might not be ripe yet, and carried on drinking. A man pretending to be a surfing instructor kept on hovering around them. "I thought he was going to give me surfing lessons or tell me more about the culture on the island, but thinking back, he was looking around all the time and looked restless," said Louw. "His friends behind the surfboards next to the coconut stall looked at us all the time and kept on laughing.   "The instructor had a doughy body with stretch marks on his hips and arms. He didn’t look like a surfing instructor," said Claassen. Louw downed her drink. Then she began feeling flushed, but she thought it was the heat. "I wanted to swim, so I took off my sunglasses and sarong and went into the water. Then the instructor was there again."  Lizane Louw and Gita Claassen with their coconut drinks on Kuta beach in Bali, moments before they started hallucinating. (Supplied, Netwerk24) 'Something was wrong' He tried questioning her, among other things, about her tattoos. All of a sudden she felt very ill. "My legs collapsed. My mouth felt dead inside and I struggled to talk. I remember a long pause. The instructor was staring at me. I was still in the water." "I looked at Gita on the beach chair. She had a weird smile. "I realised something was wrong." I shouted at her: "Leave the coconut. Come! "I was afraid for both of us. I knew there was something in my system which shouldn't be there. Then I started hallucinating." Claassen, who'd just had half her drink, said she'd been feeling high, but could see that Louw was in trouble. She grabbed her by the arms and they fled. "The guys underestimated me," said Louw. "I don't know how we got off that beach. "Thinking back, I see two butterflies flying in a huge cage... It is a terrible feeling to think that something like that can happen in broad daylight. "I am very disillusioned. I have travelled all over the world. Never did I think that I would be drugged on a Bali beach in broad daylight." Louw at times felt very paranoid and the following day had hallucinations and stomach cramps. The two women went to the international hospital in Nusa Dua, where doctors determined that there was "foreign matter" in their bodies. They were too scared to report the matter to authorities, but they have since read on the internet of similar incidents on Kuta.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  