Kaveel Singh, News24The barber shop in Springs where the girls were found. (Supplied) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Karabo Mokoena's sister, Bontle Mokoena, choked as she said her last goodbye to her little sister. Mokoena gave an emotional speech as she read a letter written by her sister in 2015, which describes how much she admired her father and the love she had for her parents. "We had really tough times, accompanied by better days too, no matter how hard it could have went, they gave us only what they could afford," read Bontle. The 27-year-old sobbed as she said her last words to her little sister, whom was fondly known as Kayfab . "I love you Karabo, and I will always miss you. I don t know what life will be like without you, but always know that I love you, Karabo." The 22-year-old was killed and burnt by her alleged ex-boyfriend. Her body was found in Lyndhurst, Johannesburg on April 29. WATCHJohannesburg &ndash; Police have arrested a 42-year-old Nigerian national after discovering five teenage girls in a &ldquo;sex slave den&rdquo; in Springs on Friday afternoon.He was charged with human trafficking, possession of drugs and possession of pornographic materials, police said on Saturday.The girls were found on premises on 8th&nbsp;Street in Springs Town. The location appeared to be a barber shop but instead housed the teenagers, aged between 14 and 19.Police spokesperson Major General Girly Mbele said police received a tip-off about a man who kept young girls as sex slaves.&ldquo;Police found five young girls aged between 14 and 19. Drugs were also found in his house. Police also seized pornographic materials that were found in the house.&rdquo;Mbele said four of the girls were from Balfour in Mpumalanga and one from KwaThema location.&ldquo;The children were taken to Parkland Hospital for medical treatment and further taken Peacehaven for safety.&rdquo;The suspect would appear in court soon, Mbele said.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.