Cape Town &ndash; Fire, death and destruction has descended over parts of South Africa over the last few weeks with recent violent protests and the threat of an all-out criminal underworld war imminent.Here are five current flashpoints around the country:&nbsp;Coligny, North West In brief: Two local farm workers &ndash; Pieter Doorewaard, 26, and Philip Schutte, 34 &ndash; are facing murder charges following the death of Matlhomola Mosweu on April 20. The men claim that they had caught Mosweu, 16, stealing sunflowers and, as they were driving him to the local police station in their bakkie, he jumped off and broke his neck. An eyewitness however claims he was pushed off.Some residents claimed he was killed because he was black, which apparently triggered the protests in the area. Mosweu's death sparked riots in the town last week.The accused were granted bail of R5 000 on Monday, resulting in further protest violence.Watch below as protests get tense, and Mosweu&rsquo;s heartbroken parents struggle to make sense of his death.WATCH: Fresh violence as Coligny accused are granted bail WATCH: 'My son is gone, what about his life?' - distraught father of Coligny teenFor more stories on Coligny, CLICK HEREJohannesburg South (Eldorado Park, Ennerdale, Freedom Park) In brief: Residents from Eldorado Park and Freedom Park are protesting over a lack of housing and jobs. The protest turned violent on Monday when residents and police had running battles along the Golden Highway which runs through both suburbs.Protest action soon spread to neighbouring Ennerdale and Orange Farm where angry residents blocked roads.The Gauteng Department of Education confirmed that schools in Ennerdale were closed following protest action on Tuesday morning.Residents said the protest turned violent because they are desperate for proper housing.Watch below as police and residents clash, and residents share their frustration.WATCH: Eldorado Park residents seek housing, block highways&nbsp;WATCH: Tyres burned, roads blocked in Ennerdale&nbsp;For more stories on the protests CLICK HEREVuwani, Limpopo In brief: Residents of Vuwani took to the streets after the Municipal Demarcation Board (MDB) refused to review a decision which saw their area incorporated into Lim345. They are refusing to be part of the municipality in Malamulele, saying it was conceived by the violent demand of Malamulele residents.Violence escalated on Sunday and Monday after President Jacob Zuma failed to address residents over the municipal boundary issue. Journalists from the SABC who were covering the protests were assaulted and three vehicles belonging to the public broadcaster were damaged.Four people have been arrested.Situation getting out of hand in #vuwani ???? Cred @kutulloMadisha pic.twitter.com/oT0ZZAhQem&mdash; Tumi Sole (@tumisole) May 7, 2017Situation getting out of hand in #vuwani ???? Cred @kutulloMadisha pic.twitter.com/oT0ZZAhQemTo follow more stories on Vuwani CLICK HERE Cape Town (Underworld turf war explodes, gang violence takes a high toll) In brief: A battle, which started out as a tussle to gain control of the lucrative nightclub security industry, has turned violent in Cape Town. In just over a week, at least four people have been murdered and 15 wounded.News24 understands the incidents are linked, and stem from the violent takeover of nightclub security in Cape Town. A new grouping, said to be under the leadership of businessman Nafiz Modack, is said to be effectively hijacking the control of nightclub security from an older, more established faction.The takeover has resulted in at least three people being wounded in shootings in popular Cape Town establishments. Several murders also appear to be linked to the takeover. Several sources with links to police and the underworld believe the shift in the nightclub security industry has been orchestrated by police and informants trying to take down key underworld players.In brief: An apparent gang war in Elsies River, which has involved several shootings over the months, has intensified, leaving two dead and 11 people wounded. The shootings on Monday, May 1, happened a day after alleged 26s gang boss Mayon McKenna was gunned down in Ravensmead. The latest shootings are a result of fighting between factions linked to the 26s and 28s gangs.In January, a 6-month-old baby was killed when a stray bullet struck her during an apparent gang fight in Ocean View. A 5-year-old girl remains traumatised after being caught in the crossfire by a stray bullet in Hanover Park in January.Ocean View, Hanover Park, Elsies River, Manenberg, and Mitchells Plain remain hotspots in the continuing gang war on the Cape Flats.Watch the footage below.WATCH: Elsies River: Shooters open fire, 2 dead&nbsp; For more stories on the ongoing gang violence, CLICK HERERichard&rsquo;s Bay, KwaZulu-Natal In brief: Police had to fall back after angry protesters flipped police vehicles and tore up roadside barriers at the Richards Bay Harbour on Tuesday The protests are related to working conditions.A policeman could be heard shouting at onlookers: "Danger zone man!"He then warned them in isiZulu: "What if these people fire shots? A bullet will hit and kill one of you. Come stand next to the wall."The bulldozers are seen in the video flipping one of the police vans upside down. They also rip apart steel barriers erected on the road where the protest takes place.Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane told News24 the protesters overturned two police vehicles. "There are some protesters who were arrested and will be charged with public violence," Zwane said.Transnet could not immediately be reached for comment.Watch the video below.WATCH: Richards Bay protesters use heavy duty front loaders to flip police cars24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.