Lizeka Tandwa, News24Laudium protests. (Sharlene Rood, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Residents in Gugulethu, Cape Town, say they were promised a community hall, an old age home, a park and a satellite police station. Protests broke out on Wednesday morning after fed-up residents blamed the DA for non-delivery.WATCHPretoria - Ten people have been arrested after criminal elements took over during a protest at Laudium in Tshwane.Police Major-General Tommy Mthombeni said the men were arrested when they started to loot and burn tyres after an address by the municipality.Earlier, police fired rubber bullets at protesters when some tried to trespass neighbouring houses and a mosque in the area.Some residents were also seen carrying guns while in chase of the criminal elements within the protest."The MMC for housing in Tshwane Mandla Nkomo spoke to community of approximately 500... As we concluded the address, people dispersed went inside Laudium ran amuck in the CBD and started burning dustbins. As police, we responded and quelled the situation. We arrested 10 people."LIVE: Police fire rubber bullets to quell Gauteng protestersMthombeni said the community of Itereleng informal settlement near Laudium are protesting over services.The community said they have been waiting for basic services since 2013. The CBD of Laudium has had extensive damage during the protest, he said.He appealed to community members not to take the law into their own hands.UPDATE: Violent protests continue at hotspots across SACouncillor Mohamed Essop and Nkomo will be meeting with 10 community leaders to discuss the situation. Essop said mayor Solly Msimanga has communicated that the area will be dealt with once the new budget has been passed.Mthombeni said allegation that a man had died as a result of the protest were false."This person collapsed and was taken to local clinic." He said the 25-year-old unknown man had no visible injuries."He is still alive."The situation is calm and residents are advised to reopen shops.WATCH:24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.