Angelique Serrao, News24 Berning Ntlemeza (Picture: Lucky Nxumalo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg – The daughter of former Hawks boss Mthandazo Berning Ntlemeza on Thursday phoned a police officer who was a complainant in a case against her father, and threatened to kill him. Anele Ntlemeza, who is also a police officer, insulted Police Minister Fikile Mbalula during the call. She accused the officer of being an informant for Mbalula and said "they didn’t give a fuck" about the minister. The phone call was made soon after Ntlemeza lost an application in the High Court in Pretoria on Thursday in which he attempted to interdict Mbalula from removing him as the Hawk’s head. The application was struck off the roll. The phone calls were all recorded and News24 has a copy of them. - LISTEN: Anele Ntlemeza allegedly threatens to kill suspended police officer Boitulemo Ramahlaha The officer, Captain Boitumelo Ramahlaha, has previously opened cases against Ntlemeza for corruption and defeating the ends of justice, after he alleged a docket against a Limpopo police officer mysteriously went missing. The officer was allegedly romantically linked to Ntlemeza’s other daughter, Amanda. ALSO READ: Cloud over new Hawks boss ignored Ntlemeza has repeatedly denied the allegations. Ramahlaha was suspended a few months after the dockets were opened. Forensic investigator Paul O’Sullivan said this was allegedly because a story had appeared in the media on the dockets being opened, and that the police had accused Ramahlaha of leaking it. O’Sullivan said he had, in fact, been the source. "I am guilty as charged for exposing these corrupt cops to the media. I fully admit I leaked the story on Ramahlaha opening a docket on Ntlemeza to the media," he said. 'I will come after you with everything I’ve got' During Thursday's phone calls, Anele confirms to Ramahlaha that it is her calling and accuses him of intimidating and harassing her sister. She tells the suspended captain that she knows where he lives and has his father’s telephone numbers. "Stop messing around with my family or I will come after you with everything I’ve got. I will go as far as killing you," she said. Ramahlaha asks: "Are you willing to kill me for Ntlemeza?" Anele responds: "You think you are clever? You psychotic motherfucker. You need a psychiatric evaluation. If I ever hear you contact or insult my sister, you are dead. I will kill you. Call her now and it will be your last day." She tells him she is in Pretoria and that they must meet face to face. She then asks why Ramahlaha is not calling her father. He responds that he does not have his number as the minister had taken his phone. "Who is the minister to us? You are his fool. You are his informant… Do you think we give a fuck about him?" she asks.  'Don’t kill me, I am not the judge' Ramahlaha responds: "Anele Ntlemeza, your father loses a court battle and you call me. You are threatening to kill me. Don’t kill me, I am not the judge." The verbal spat did not end at one call. In subsequent phone calls – all recorded – Anele repeats that she wants to kill Ramahlaha that night, plans to attend his funeral, and that the Ntlemezas are roaming the streets of Pretoria looking for him. She adds that he and the minister are a "bunch of fools". "Take this to the media. I want to be famous," she said. O’Sullivan said he was called by Ramahlaha and asked if he could help him. Anele’s employer is listed as the SAPS, but O’Sullivan said he had heard that she might be working at Interpol. O’Sullivan said Ramahlaha had opened a case against Anele, at Pretoria Central, of intimidation and conspiracy to murder. O’Sullivan messaged Anele, telling her that a docket had been opened against her. "You have alleged that you and your family are looking for him (Ramahlaha) now. We assume your family includes your father," O’Sullivan said. He said he had assisted Ramahlaha in opening a case against Ntlemeza and that both he and Ramahlaha were witnesses against the ex-Hawks boss. ALSO READ: Missing docket: cop charges Ntlemeza In the message he tells her to stop what she is doing. O’Sullivan said she responded to his message by telling him "see you in hell". She said Ramahlaha had been terrorising her family and that if he came to face them, he would get what’s due to him. "You don’t scare me, you terrorist. You come to South Africa to promote your criminal ways. You are messing with the wrong family. I’m not scared of you Paul." When News24 contacted Anele, she said Ramahlaha was no longer a police officer, and called him a scumbag who had been insulting her sister. When asked how he had done this, she said: "You know, you media. You published it." 'Anele Ntlemeza is in the police?' She ended the call when asked if she was still working in the police. When contacted, Ramahlaha cited police policy and said he was not allowed to speak to the media. Mbalula told News24 that he was not aware of Ramahlaha, the cases opened against Ntlemeza by him, or his suspension. He said he could not comment on Anele’s insults against him. He was surprised to learn that Anele was a police officer. "Anele Ntlemeza is in the police?" he asked. "This isn’t about me. What happened with Ntlemeza was about me doing what the law required. There is nothing personal about it. I stand by my decisions. Being in government means we get battered all the time," Mbalula said.  *Do you have information for our investigative journalists? Send an email to tips@24.com   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  