Makhosandile ZuluMakhosandile.Zulu@media24.comPROTEST action broke out in Ntshawini on Sunday night and lasted until Monday morning with protesters blockading the R102 resulting with traffic having to be redirected to the N2.Protests resumed on Tuesday morning and KZN SAPS spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said: This morning [Tuesday] the community of Ntshawini blocked the road again using stones and burning tyres in the area. They are complaining of service delivery. There are no damages for now. No arrest has been made at this stage and the police are on the scene monitoring the situation. It is believed the protest was linked to government housing.On Tuesday, KwaDukuza Municipality spokesperson Sphelelo Ngobese said: We have this morning deployed a task team, led by members of council, to launch a probe into the unrest. At this stage, we have no grounds to pronounce on the matter, however, we will update the media on the latest findings. We will do whatever we can to ensure that stability is restored in that area. Earlier on Tuesday morning, the Weekly spoke to a councillor of a ward in Ntshawini, Welcome Ntuli, who said he and other leaders were on their way to meet with the protesting community at the time of the conversation, so he could not confirm whether the protest was linked to government housing as he was yet to hear the protester s pronouncements. On Monday, KwaDukuza SAPS spokesperson, Warrant Officer Johannes Khoza said the SAPS were sent to the scene, and traffic had began to trickle through the R102, although debris remained on the road.He said at that time the police had not arrested anyone in connection with the protest.The Weekly spoke to one of the councillors, Thandeka Ngidi, on Monday morning who said the epicentre of the protest was in the Nqobheni area.She said the previous night, on Sunday, she heard a car with a loud hailer driving around the area and calling on residents to take to the streets in protest over service delivery. At 9am today [Monday] the ANC s councillors will have a caucus meeting, and at that meeting, all Ntshawini s councillors will discuss the issues around the protest, Ngidi said.On Monday Zwane said: A group of people were protesting last night at Ntshawini area near KwaDukuza complaining about service delivery. They were blocking the road with burning tyres and stones. A car was also set alight in the area. Two suspects were arrested and charged with public violence this morning. They will appear in the KwaDukuza Magistrate s Court today. Police are monitoring the situation. Protest action broke out in Ntshawini on Sunday night and lasted until Monday morning with protesters blockading the R102 resulting with traffic having to be redirected to the N2.Protests resumed on Tuesday morning and KZN SAPS spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said: This morning [Tuesday] the community of Ntshawini blocked the road again using stones and burning tyres in the area. They are complaining of service delivery. No damages for now. No arrest has been made at this stage and the police are still on the scene monitoring the situation. It is believed the protest was linked to government housing.On Tuesday, the KwaDukuza Municipality spokesperson Sphelelo Ngobese said: We have this morning deployed a task team led by members of council to launch a probe into the unrest. At this stage, we have no grounds to pronounce on the matter, however, we will update the media on the latest findings. We will do whatever we can to ensure that stability is restored in that area. Earlier on Tuesday morning, the Weekly spoke to a councillor of a ward in Ntshawini, Welcome Ntuli, who said that he and other leaders were on their way to meet with the protesting community at the time of the conversation, therefore, he could not confirm whether the protest was linked to government housing as he was yet to hear the protester's pronouncements.On Monday, KwaDukuza SAPS spokesperson, Warrant Officer Johannes Khoza said, police were sent to the scene, and that traffic began to trickle through the R102, although debris remained on the road.He said at that time the police had not arrested anyone in connection with the protest.The Weekly spoke to one of the area's councillors, Thandeka Ngidi, on Monday morning who said the epicentre of the protest was at the Nqobheni area.She said the previous night, on Sunday, she heard a car with a loud hailer driving around the area and calling on the area's residents to take to the streets in protest over service delivery. At 9am today [Monday] the ANC's councillors will have a caucus meeting, and at that meeting, all of Ntshawini's councillors will discuss the issues around the protest, Ngidi said.On Monday KZN SAPS spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said: A group of people were protesting last night at Ntshawini area near KwaDukuza complaining about service delivery. They were blocking the road with burning tyres and stones. A car was also set alight in the area. Two suspects were arrested and charged with public violence this morning. They will appear in the KwaDukuza Magistrate's Court today. Police are monitoring the situation. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.