Denique Smith, Netwerk24Fernando Williams, 17, who was killed in a hail of gunfire in Elsies River. (Supplied, Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; Shock. Sadness. Anger. That&rsquo;s the community&rsquo;s response to yet another shooting on Monday evening in Leonsdale, Elsies River, in Cape Town. Three people died and 10 others were wounded in the incident in Tiara Way.In addition to this, there were two other shootings in the area on the same day. A man, 31, died after being shot and a 15-year-old boy, who was accompanying his mother on the night of the Tiara Way shooting incident, was critically wounded on the way home.The 13 people &ndash; three of whom died on the scene &ndash; were shot in front of the De Brug apartment complex at around 20:45, said police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana.Anthony Phillips, 57, and Fernando Williams, 17, died at the scene. The third victim hasn&rsquo;t been identified yet, Netwerk24 reported.The ages of the 10 other people who were wounded range from 15 to 53. They were admitted to hospital.No arrests have yet been made in connection with the incident.Sharon Newman, 52, who has been living in the De Brug complex for the past five years, said on Tuesday she was angry about the attack in front of her home. Her daughter, 20-year-old Natasha-Lee, who was Williams' girlfriend, was shot in her feet.'Bullets came flying through my kitchen'"I was still busy dishing up food when I heard the shots being fired. The bullets came flying through my kitchen. I didn&rsquo;t know where to hide. The shots just kept ringing out."The way they were shooting, it felt as if they were inside my house. Nothing like this has happened since I moved in. It is innocent people who got hurt and not one of them belonged to a gang," Newman said, in tears."No one really knows what happened. It was so fast. It&rsquo;s a quiet area and I can&rsquo;t believe that something like this could have happened here."According to witnesses, a group of friends were playing cards in front of the corner flat they were visiting when shots were fired at them from a passing car.They had apparently been sitting with their backs facing the street and didn&rsquo;t see the vehicle with the shooter/s, said Newman.According to her, youngsters often sit on the corner near her flat."I normally scold and throw water in front of my door so that they don&rsquo;t sit here, but I didn&rsquo;t last night [Monday]. It was just God&rsquo;s will that I didn&rsquo;t scold them yesterday."'He was my most beautiful child'When Netwerk24 visited the scene, there was still blood visible in front of Newman&rsquo;s house, as well as the playing cards and bullet holes.Phillips' wife Geroma, 54, said she was home at the time of the attack. They live in the Seven Oaks complex across the road from De Brug."I was in the room when I heard the shots. I told my son Darren not to go out, because they were shooting. He then told me to look who was lying there &ndash; it was his father."When I ran down, I saw his father lying flat on the ground. My son and I lifted him up and put him on the bakkie. No one could tell me where he had been shot, because there wasn&rsquo;t even blood. None of them deserved to be killed," she said.WATCH:&nbsp; Judenia, 46, Williams' mother, says she doesn&rsquo;t know how to feel about the shooting. Her son was shot in the chest. "It is the first time that a son of mine has been killed this way. Just last week I still said he was my most beautiful child. He respected his elders and never back-chatted me. He was very sporty and belonged to the local Riverside Rangers soccer club."Anyone with information about the shooting incident can contact Crime Stop on 0860 010 111.*In the shooting incident that occurred later on Monday evening in Gabba Village, Elsies River, a 15-year-old boy was wounded three times. Ethan Galant, a Grade 7 pupil at Norwood Primary School, is in a critical condition. *Police are also investigating the murder of a 31-year-old man who was shot dead in Leonsdale on Monday morning. His body was found with gunshot wounds at about 09:50. No arrests have been made in connection with this case either. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.