Marcus MonyakeniPhoto: Supplied Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Water is precious.It is vital that each and every one of us keep that resource safe and plentiful. It is essential that all stakeholders and every member of the public do their best to protect water and its resources, whether it be during tough times of severe drought or not. Leakages and burst pipes account for more waste of water, especially if not reported.Failure by the responsible persons to attend to the leakage promptly also waste water. The time is now to save water. Every citizen is a water ambassador. It is important that community members report leakages to relevant autho-rities. Some municipalities have dedicated call centres where leakages and sanitation- related issues can be reported. Winter is a period to take note of. As a result of the freezing conditions during winter, most municipalities and water service authorities experience high water loss due to pipes bursting and leakages which include meter connections.When temperatures remain below freezing point, the water in exposed copper pipes, such as those of geysers, are at high risk of freezing. This can be prevented by insulating exposed pipes with a geyser insulator or cloth to keep water flowing and to prevent ice blockage at freezing temperatures. When away from the house for an extended period of time during winter, turn off the main water valve to prevent too much water leakage in case the pipes burst.Also, do not take a full hot bath to warm yourself up during winter. Rather cover up warmly and enjoy a hot cup of tea or coffee. Even to take a long shower to warm yourself up in winter, is wasting water. Furthermore, the consis-tent steam in the bathroom will damage the interior of the walls and ceiling in the long run. As South African citizens we all know that the Free State of Mzantsi is not a winter rain region. There is no pay for wri-ters. Send your opinion piece (not exceeding 500 words in Sotho or English) via email to teboho.setena@volksblad .com. Writers are welcome to send spiritual articles. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.