Paul Herman, News24Deputy Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Thabang Makwetla. (GCIS) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The African National Congress in Parliament has condemned the hijacking of ANC MP and Deputy Justice Minister Thabang Makwetla this week."As the ANC in Parliament we express our deepest solace to comrade Makwetla following this horrible incident," Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu said on Tuesday."We are, however, comforted by the fact that he returned unharmed. Comrade Makwetla has confirmed that he is physically unharmed and remains in high spirits. He reported back to work this morning."Mthembu appealed to members of the public who may have information about the crime to report the matter to the police.He reiterated his confidence in Police Minister Fikile Mbalula's efforts to combat crime.Makwetla was on his way to visit a patient at the Life Riverfield Lodge, a psychiatric care and addiction treatment facility in Johannesburg, on Sunday, his spokesperson Ntime Skhosana said on Monday.ATM withdrawalsWhen he arrived at the hospital gates around 19:30, four balaclava-clad men scrambled out of the vehicle behind his."They held him at gunpoint, accosted him and took two security guards from the hospital."Makwetla was forced into the back seat of his car face down. The security guards were forced into the boot."They drove to a neighbouring settlement where they demanded his cards and cellphone and then they took him out of his private car, a Range Rover, and placed him in their car."They took him to the nearest ATM and withdrew money. All three men were taken to Kgabalatsane near Brits, North West."They dropped them off and vehicles kept passing them. They found a car on the side of the road and asked the stranger if they could use their cellphone. He did not have petrol, but he had a cellphone, which was what they needed."Police were called to the scene.When asked if he thought the incident was politically motivated, Sikhosana said he did not want to speculate.The police department currently has the second biggest budget in the Cabinet, at R87bn. Only the department of social development has a bigger budget. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.