The South African National Roads Agency (SANRAL) has announced road infrastructure development programmes with a total investment value of R1,6 billion for the national road network in Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and the Sarah Baartman District Municipality. SANRAL will break ground for 6 new construction, maintenance and upgrading projects in its new 2017/18 financial book year, according to Mbulelo Peterson, SANRAL Southern Region Manager. “The forthcoming projects will not only advance road safety but also deliver a world-class national road network to the province,” said Peterson.  Golden era of prosperity through mobility Three of the projects along the R334, R342 and R336 will improve the quality of the national road network from Somerset East, Kirkwood and Paterson to Addo, and from Addo to Motherwell/Nelson Mandela Bay, while the remaining projects are focused on the R75 and N2 for Uitenhage, Joe Slovo and Colchester.  The announcement was made at one of SANRAL’s several annual consultation and engagement briefings with municipalities in the Eastern Cape. SANRAL engaged the mayoral portfolio committee members of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality (NMBM) on cooperation requirements from the NMBM in relation to traffic control and municipal approval of rezoning or subdivision of land adjacent to national roads network, amongst other things. “Investment in the national road network in the Eastern Cape is poised to steer the region into a golden era of prosperity through mobility,” said Peterson.  “A safer and effective road network is key to enhancing foreign and domestic direct investment, socio-economic growth and development as well as government service delivery.” SMME contract participation  Petersen indicated that SANRAL will set SMME contract participation goals and community training programmes in forthcoming tender calls to ensure utilization, maximization and development of SMME’s.  The forthcoming national road network projects to be launched by SANRAL in Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and Sarah Baartman District Municipality later this year will include among others: Uitenhage off-ramp to Graaff Reinet Road • R75: A 10-month resurfacing of the Uitenhage off-ramp to Graaff-Reinet Road which will include repairing failures, rejuvenating old seals, asphalt overlay as well as road marking, sign and guardrails which will commence in November 2017. Addo - Paterson road • R342: A 24-month special road maintenance project from Addo to Paterson which will entail repairs to poles and failures, improved access, appropriate sealing, fencing as well as road marking, signs and guardrails. Addo - Motherwell road • R335: A 34-month upgrade of the road between Motherwell and Addo which will include widening of the road, new vertical and horizontal alignment, new pavement layers, improving safety aspects near intersections, resealing of the road surface as well as road marking, signs and guardrails. Addo - Kirkwood road • R336: A 24-month road improvement project between Addo and Kirkwood sche-duled to commence in November 2017 which entails widening of the road, reconstruction of bridges, improved accesses, appropriate sealing and fencing as well as road marking, signs and guardrails. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  