Caryn Dolley, News24Jeremy Vearey (Jenna Etheridge, News24, file) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - High-ranking Western Cape policeman Jeremy Vearey, who is taking on national police managers in the Labour Court, says police and crime intelligence officers are conspiring with politicians and gangsters in an ongoing attempt to derail critical investigations. Vearey told News24 that he is a target of constant smear campaigns, which are being run by senior police officers and politicians, who are using gangsters to assist them. He said he was aware of a particular Crime Intelligence officer who had previously visited attorney Noorudien Hassan, who was linked to some of the province&rsquo;s most high-profile gang cases, about claims to be concocted against him. Hassan was murdered outside his home in Lansdowne in November 2016. 'Amateurs' Vearey said he and others were monitoring how senior Crime Intelligence officers were plotting against him. "We are aware of what they are up to. They are amateurs," he said. Vearey believes attempts are being made to discredit him to stunt high-level investigations he has been busy with and which are threatening to expose criminality within the police service and among politicians. "There is definitely something everybody is hiding. We are coming after them systematically," Vearey said. "This is a various convergence of various people. This is the politics of organised crime."The provincial head of Crime Intelligence, Major-General Mzwandile Tiyo, who Vearey is also taking on in the Labour Court, on Tuesday initially&nbsp;said he would not comment on the&nbsp;allegations as he did not talk to the media.But he later said he was in a meeting at the time he was approached for comment and asked that an email query be sent to him.This was done and he was yet to respond at the time of publication.Underworld ties Vearey spoke to News24 on Monday after a few sources, with close knowledge of happenings in the underworld, claimed that Northern Cape police commissioner Risimati Shivuri, spotted with alleged underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack in an upmarket Cape Town hotel earlier in May, was investigating Vearey. It was not clear what the meeting in the hotel had been about. Modack is said to be heading a new faction taking over the nightclub security industry, thereby ousting an older faction in what has become a bloody war for control of the industry. A source with close ties to Modack recently told News24 that Vearey had links to the older faction. But Vearey said these fresh claims linking him to the underworld were part of the constant attempts to tarnish his name. "This is a regurgitation of the same nonsense they&rsquo;ve been doing over the last few years&hellip; "It&rsquo;s the resurrection, repackaging and republishing of information from the same discredited sources." Divisions Other police officers in the province previously spoke to News24, on condition of anonymity, about divisions within the provincial police and between certain national police leaders and those in the Western Cape. They said a number of officers deployed in the Western Cape had a particular political agenda and that efforts were being made to sideline certain officers who did not back the agenda. Vearey on Monday declined to comment on the "national dimensions" of the situation. 'Hidden agendas' The source with close ties to Modack recently said that Vearey had wanted a meeting between the new grouping and older grouping involved in the club security battle. "Show its shows he hs a hiden agenda as saps cnt cnt inolve to set up meetinga like that [sic]," the source had said in a message. The source also claimed Vearey had links to the 27s gang. Other sources told News24 that Shivuri was probing Vearey for alleged links to gangsters. At the weekend, Shivuri made headlines when the Sunday Times reported he had used a police helicopter to fly him to Colesburg so he could have breakfast at Wimpy. Asked, among other things, whether Shivuri was indeed probing Vearey, national police spokesperson Major-General Sally de Beer said Shivuri&rsquo;s actions would not be discussed in the media. "The department will not manage the affairs of the Provincial Commissioner: Northern Cape in the execution of his duties through the media," the response said. "The placement of Lieutenant General Shivuri under scrutiny and the reporting out of context to create a cloud around him is noted with serious concern." Sources have told News24 that Shivuri was in communication with Community Safety MEC Dan Plato. Vearey has before claimed that Plato is running a smear campaign against him to tarnish his image, which Plato has consistently denied. In terms of Shivuri, Plato confirmed to News24 that he had communicated with him. "I have had contact with the commissioner in question, as was requested by him," he said. Plato denied meeting Modack, as some sources had claimed he had. Legal issues Vearey is involved in at least two legal matters. He has confirmed he is the complainant in a crimen injuria case. This matter, which was initially an internal police probe, is against Plato and senior police officers. News24 understands it relates to the alleged smear campaigns against Vearey and is being investigated on a national level.Vearey said he was aware of a counter-case, apparently brought on by Plato. However, Plato denied this, saying he had not taken any legal action against any police member. In a second legal matter, Vearey, along with Major-General Peter Jacobs, are applicants in a Labour Court case. Vearey and Jacobs are taking on, among others, Tiyo,&nbsp;acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane and Major-General Patrick Mbotho, the deputy provincial commissioner of detectives.In 2016, Vearey, who was deputy provincial commissioner for detective services, was suddenly shifted to a position he previously filled, commander of the Cape Town cluster of police stations, while Jacobs, who headed the province's crime intelligence unit, was appointed Wynberg cluster commander.Vearey and Jacobs are therefore fighting what they believe were demotions. They have said ulterior motives led to them being demoted. Whistle-blower linkPreviously, it had emerged that former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor had approached Vearey with sensitive information, shortly before Vearey and Jacobs were repositioned. This information had been passed on to provincial police head Khombinkosi Jula&rsquo;s office and then the Hawks. Vearey has never commented on this. His name has previously been linked to several criminal matters. In April 2016, allegations surfaced that Vearey had been involved in the murder of alleged gang boss Nathaniel Moses. The allegations had led to a meeting between former police minister Nathi Nhleko and Phahlane to discuss the matter. Moses was the leader of a faction of the 28s gang called The Mobsters. Murder On January 15, 2016, two gunmen walked up to Moses, who was parked outside a car rental dealership in Main Road, Strand, and shot him at least six times in the head. A now-jailed self-styled whistleblower, Sylvano Hendricks, a transgender woman who calls herself Queenie Madikizela-Malema, had made claims implicating Vearey in the murder. The affidavit alleged that Vearey worked with a suspected gang boss in the Moses murder. Vearey previously named a senior police officer as being the driving force in spreading the information. He had also said Hendricks made similar allegations about him relating to the same issues before and that nothing had come of this. Vearey, speaking to News24 on Monday, said he knew of Crime Intelligence officers who had approached Hendricks while he was in jail to make further allegations against him. "One of them who visited [Hendricks] is one of the respondents in our Labour Court matter." Police and politicians In October 2015, apparent informer Pierre Theron, who was known for peddling information on an array of crimes to journalists, made allegations against Vearey, senior police officers and politicians. His affidavit had alleged, that among other things, jailed Czech fugitive Radovan Krejcir paid Vearey a total of R6m. The nature of these payments was not detailed. In 2012, Plato compiled a dossier on conversations, apparently between Plato and a businessman, Jeffrey Franciscus, who died in a car accident in 2011. Included in the dossier were claims that Vearey had worked with gang bosses. This was never substantiated. In 2013, Plato provided some journalists with an affidavit by an apparent informer, Pierre Mark Anthony Wyngaardt, from Tafelsig. The affidavit claimed Vearey was linked to gangsters and that senior ANC members and police officers were involved in crimes including drug trafficking. The director of public prosecutions declined to pursue this matter. &nbsp;&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.