A screen grab of the scene at OR Tambo international after a man was shot dead. (YouTube screen grab) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - One person was shot dead on Ring Road leading to OR Tambo International Airport's arrivals and departures roadway.In a video doing the rounds on social media, a man can be seen lying dead on the R24.According to police spokesperson, Sally de Beer, preliminary reports indicate that the driver of the Hyundai H1 was transporting a group of six businesspeople from Johannesburg to the airport and en route at least one vehicle attempted to flag them down. &nbsp; The driver of the Hyundai H1 who was killed continued on towards the airport. &ldquo;Reportedly, as he took the off-ramp from the highway to the airport, the vehicle was blocked by two other vehicles, one being a black VW Golf. The driver was shot and fatally wounded. &nbsp; The suspects drove off in the H1 with the passengers. &nbsp; They were abandoned by the suspects in Rhodesfield, Kempton Park, after being robbed of some of their belongings including cellular phones. None of the passengers were injured, according to initial reports. The airport&rsquo;s management confirmed the incident in a statement. It said police were still investigating the matter."As OR Tambo International Airport Management, we have this afternoon been made aware of this very unfortunate and deeply concerning matter."The incident took place off the R24, along Ring Road, which leads to the airport&rsquo;s arrivals and departures roadway."Law enforcement is currently on site, investigating the crime scene."We are awaiting further information from Law enforcement on this matter.Anti-crime activist Yusuf Abramjee said it appeared that a gang of armed men driving a black gold GTI opened fire with an AK47 and killed the man. &nbsp;&nbsp;"We've had airport followings going on for a long time. Almost every week incidents are being reported," he said.He said he had raised the issue with the Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula recently."Urgent interventions are required. There are clearly gangs operating from the airport and following arrival passengers. Today they struck not far from the terminal building. It shows how brazen these gangs are."There are also lots of spotters at the airport and they tip-off the gangs who are waiting outside."Police and airport security must urgently review security and take urgent action."&nbsp; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.