Phuti MathobelaTV personality Tumelo Mothotoane has made the Daily Thetha famous by tackling topics that resonate with the country&rsquo;s youth.She has used the show on SABC1 to force youngsters to debate politically explosive and culturally sensitive topics in the spirit of fostering dialogue.&ldquo;It helps South Africans to speak about their social issues and realise that we do not only form part of a hurting community but we are helping others seek healthier solutions to our social ills,&rdquo; said the confident Mothotoane, who co-presents the show with Kini Shandu.Unfortunately, the embattled and financially struggling public broadcaster has been shy to release the latest viewer ratings. As a result, City Press has not been able to measure the show&rsquo;s growth other than to note the topics that got the show trending nationally due to public engagement and following.Mothotoane said she has learnt a lot about the country and what young South Africans want to see happen in this country. &ldquo;We are a hurting nation and taught to keep silent about our past traumas and current social challenges,&rdquo; she said, which is why she has used the show to push the limits.Mothotoane (26) has been passionate about being in the media industry from a young age. &ldquo;I used to play Jam Alley with my cousins and made them contestants while pretending to be one of the presenters of the show,&rdquo; she recalled.The Lebowakgomo-born TV star claimed to have enjoyed public speaking as a child, hence she graduated to presenting TV shows. She holds a bachelor&rsquo;s degree in media studies and psychology from the University of the Witwatersrand. She has worked on television programmes that include Chatroom, One Day Leader and SABC&rsquo;s Morning Live.Asked who her heroes are in life and why, she said her inspiration came from mentally and spiritually strong individuals, particularly women leaders who have overcome challenges and still gracefully nurture their families while economically empowering themselves. However, she cunningly chose not to mention names in case it ended up being a career-limiting mistake to leave out important people in certain circles.&ldquo;It is important to invest in spiritual and mental strength because you can overcome any obstacle that comes your way,&rdquo; she emphasised. Asked whether she planned to venture into acting anytime soon as her followers suggest often in social media, Mothotoane acted surprised. &ldquo;Ooh, viewers think I should venture into acting? Oh my, I had no idea,&rdquo; she said, laughing at the thought of being in action movies or in soapies.She has been working at Power FM as a radio talk show host on a stand in basis and has also hosted radio shows on TransAfrica Radio and Channel Africa radio, which both formed part of her foundation.Her advice to young people is to learn to sacrifice instant gratification for long term rewards. &ldquo;When you choose to invest your time and effort into educating yourself about what you aspire to achieve, you enrich yourself with knowledge,&rdquo; she said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.