Jeanette Chabalala, News24Magistrate's court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Relatives of a woman who was allegedly stabbed to death by her ex-boyfriend said they were disappointed after the man's case was postponed in the Johannesburg Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on Wednesday morning. Sibongeseni Patrick Zondi appeared briefly in court where the matter was postponed to July 19 to undergo mental observation.He allegedly stabbed Nonhle Charmaine Mbonambi, 24, at a Johannesburg nightclub on December 27, 2016, family spokesperson Lindiwe Mbonambi told News24.Nonhle was an employee at the club."We are not okay - we are hurt and confused. Nonhle was not in love with him anymore," Mbonambi said.Mbonambi said Zondi had approached Nonhle at the club and allegedly stabbed her."We were told a lady noticed blood coming out and that Nonhle tried to run away,'' she said.She said on the night of the incident, she was called to the scene and she found Nonhle lying on the floor.&nbsp;Nonhle left behind her three children, aged 3, 5, and 10-years old.Gauteng ANCWL has called for a harsher sentence to be imposed on the accused."If you look at the wounds in [Nonhle&rsquo;s body] it tells you that it was cruel.&nbsp;"Cases are going to be prolonged because people want to play in the psychiatric hospitals. The family is hurting, they are in trauma and we see the mother crying every day."Recent murders of womenThere has been a public rise in violent crimes against women and children in the past few weeks.Four women were found murdered in Soweto in the past weeks.A part-time student Karabo Mokoena, 22, was found murdered in a veld in Lyndhurst. Her former boyfriend Sandile Kagiso Mantsoe was arrested and charged with her murder.On the weekend Maties student Hannah Cornelius was found on a farm outside Stellenbosch on Saturday morning. &nbsp;Netwerk24 reported that Cornelius and her friend Cheslin Marsh were hijacked in her blue Citi Golf in Stellenbosch.Marsh was assaulted and left for dead.&nbsp;Vernon Witbooi, 32, and Geraldo Parsons, 26 &ndash; were arrested on Saturday at about 14:00 on the farm Dwars-in-die-weg in Devon Valley, after a high-speed chase by detectives of the Stellenbosch police.They apparently had been trying to hide there. They appeared in the Stellenbosch Magistrate&rsquo;s Court on Monday, charged with murder, rape, car theft, robbery with aggravating circumstances and abduction. The case was postponed to July 28 for further investigation. &nbsp;A third man, Nashwill Julies, 26, was arrested on Sunday. He appeared in court in Stellenbosch on Tuesday charged with murder, attempted murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances and abduction. The case was also postponed to July 28 for further investigation. A fourth man, who was arrested on Monday evening&nbsp;in connection with the case, is set to appear in the Stellenbosch Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.