Caryn Dolley, News24Former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer arrives at the High Court for what is expected to be the start of his corruption trial. (Caryn Dolley, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A businessman at the centre of former Western Cape police commissioner Arno Lamoer's corruption trial apparently told a senior officer that the top cop gave him "a hiding" following a police operation at a club. &nbsp; The "hiding" was not detailed, but is understood to have been in the form of a tongue lashing. &nbsp; This emerged in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday while Brigadier Hansia Hansraj, the former station commander for the Goodwood police, was testifying. &nbsp; Hansraj had in 2012 launched an inquiry into apparent cosy relationships between businessman Salim Dawjee, Lamoer and some of his colleagues. &nbsp; Dawjee, Lamoer and three brigadiers - Darius van der Ross, Sharon Govender and her husband Colin Govender - face 109 charges of corruption, racketeering and money laundering involving R1.6m. &nbsp; Dawjee allegedly paid the police officials in exchange for "special favours".Firearms and ammunitionSome of the charges they face relate to criminal activity around firearms and ammunition. &nbsp; They have all pleaded not guilty. &nbsp; On Wednesday Hansraj, who was under cross-examination, was asked about a police operation carried out in September 2012. &nbsp; This operation had been carried out at Club 151 in Goodwood and Dawjee's business Cape Tow Bars. &nbsp; Dawjee's son Zameer had met with Hansraj because he was unhappy about the operation as some staff members had been searched. &nbsp; Hansraj said Dawjee had said he was not aware of the operation, but had then referred to it."He said: 'I got a call from General Lamoer who has given me a hiding on this operation.'"Dawjee denied saying this. &nbsp; InsultBut Hansra said she had evidence to prove that he did."He is lying," she said. &nbsp; Earlier on Wednesday, she was questioned about the relationship between Van der Ross and Dawjee. &nbsp; It emerged that Dawjee had once called Van der Ross "a bosman". &nbsp; The court heard that Van der Ross had felt this was a reference to his heritage and his links to the Obikwa clan. &nbsp; Van der Ross, who was proud to be a bushman, had felt as if this reference had been an insult to him. &nbsp; The court heard that for the 2012/2013 period, Hansraj had won a station commander award.It was put to her that she had attributed the win to the staff with which she worked. &nbsp; Hansraj testified that it was not a result of Van der Ross' work. &nbsp; At that stage Van der Ross had been the cluster commander for the area."I am not going to give him the credit for that; if he wants that credit as he usually wants credit," Hansraj said. &nbsp; The trial continues. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.