Amanda Khoza, News24David Mabuza (GCIS) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; Mpumalanga premier David Mabuza told mourners at a mass funeral service in Mpumalanga on Saturday that there were plans in place to make the road, where 20 people died in a horrific taxi crash last month, safer.Mabuza was addressing a packed marquee where mourners had come to bury 16 of the 18 pupils who died in a horrific taxi crash last month. A general worker was also buried. Twenty people died in the incident, including the taxi driver. The incident happened on the R25 between Verena and Bronkhorstspruit when the taxi crashed into a truck.Mabuza said the government would look into making sure that children do not travel long distances to school because they want to be taught in a particular language. He said he had heard the complaints around the stretch of road and promised to investigate and&nbsp;subsequently make the road safer.Mabuza told the families of the deceased children that while he had never lost a child, he felt their pain.&ldquo;I know what it is like to lose a loved one, but I have not experienced losing a child. The pain you are feeling, I am feeling it too and if I feel it. Yours must be greater,&rdquo; he said. &nbsp; &ldquo;We lost little children...We hope that time will heal. I don&rsquo;t even have the words that can describe the pain we are in as the Mpumalanga and the Gauteng province. It is more than we can handle, but I am happy that the province of Mpumalanga is handling the pain together.&rdquo; He said the government hoped that the children would rest in peace. &ldquo;If you have never been in this situation where you lose a loved one, your own child, you will not be able to explain the pain that these families are going through.&rdquo;Mabuza said he wished there was something that the government could do to make the family feel better. &ldquo;We think that time will heal this wound&hellip; Your pain is our pain.&rdquo; He said there were future teachers, doctors and nurses among the deceased. &ldquo;We had great expectations. The nation has lost a great deal.&rdquo; 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.