Mbongiseni MasekoZintle Sodlaka, friend, and Bukelwa Kota, mother of the deceased, Lindokuhle Kota, in Green Point, Khayelitsha, on Tuesday.PHOTO: Mbongiseni MASEKO Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A 25 year old man briefly appeared in Khayelitsha Magistrate s Court on charges of killing his two year old daughter, on Tuesday.The suspect was arrested on Sunday morning after he informed the parternal grandmother that the child, Lindokuhle Kota, was not breathing.They both rushed the Lindokuhle to Khayelitsha Day Hospital where she was declared dead on arrival.Erick Ntabazalila, spokesperson for National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), said the suspect was only charged with murder and that he was not charged with rape which police indicated in a statment released on Sunday.Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana, provincial spokesperson for SAPS, said the suspect, whose name cannot be published as he is yet to plead in court, was recently released from prison for an undisclosed case. Bukelwa Kota, 32, the mother of the deceased, was still finding it hard to come to terms with the death of her child. I am still in the dark as to what transpired. I was called to come to the hospital where they first asked me if I was aware that my child had bruises. I said I was not aware. They then told me that she was raped and she is dead. I was told that her father said she fell from a washing machine. It is hard for me to understand that the father is behind all this. We were all under impression that he loved our child. I do not have all the information about this, Kota said.Kota, who resides in Green Point, Khayelitsha, said the child had been under his care, at his home in F Section, since Wednesday.The deceased was their only child together. Kota was also not aware that the suspect appeared in court when we visited her, on Tuesday afternoon.There were not funeral arrangements yet as they are still waiting for post-mortem.The case was postponed to 16 May for bail application. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.