Jenni Evans, News24Neighbours search for Courtney Pieters. (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - The search for missing Elsie's River 3-year-old Courtney Pieters continues on Tuesday with a thorough inspection of all the rubbish bins being set out for bin day in the area.''Today we will look in all the bins,'' said Celeste Adonis, after another night of searching for the child yielded no clues.In the search for Courtney on Monday, volunteers helped search in open fields, manholes, and the backyards and rubbish bins of people who were home, while police followed up on possible leads.Courtney disappeared last Thursday, May 4, having been last seen a block away from her home in Pluto Street at the corner of Milky Way and Grand Vue roads.She was barefoot and wearing a yellow and white T-shirt and blue shorts. Department of Public Works employees and volunteers scratched through the stinking piles of rubble dumped on the sides of the roads, lifting heavy blocks of dumped concrete, in the hopes of finding a clue.The search continuesVolunteers were given blue gloves and a whistle and were instructed by their team leaders to sound the alarm immediately without touching anything if they found something that could be of use in the search for her. ''Don't go haywire if you find something,'' implored volunteer Carol Nwoffiah, with her baby on her back. ''Keep the scene clear and blow your whistle so that we can come and secure the scene for evidence.'' Torn filthy blankets, broken television sets, and planks were moved and sticks were poked in the cleared ground. Municipal workers helped by fetching lighting to shine down deep manholes that had already been searched by police. On Monday two clips of CCTV footage were shown to mom Juanita and dad Aaron but it was not their child that was depicted. Faizel Brown of the Mitchells Plain Crisis Forum, which had come over to help, said that on Tuesday they would follow up by getting keys to sports field toilets and store rooms to rule them out.Children who usually ran in and out of each other's houses to play during the day were kept close by the fearful community.Police spokesperson Captain Daphne O'Reilly appealed to anybody who had seen the petite child on the day she disappeared to contact the Elsie's River police station so that this information can be added to the timeline of her disappearance and followed up on. ''We are basically appealing to anyone who saw her in the road to come forward,'' urged O'Reilly. The information can be conveyed to Captain Taylor and Colonel Themba Barnies at the Elsie's River police station on 021 928 1400 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.