The Van Breda murder trial continues at the Western Cape High Court for day 12 of the proceedings. Jump to bottom Stephanie Op't Hof insists argument came from #VanBreda house that night. Couldn't hear words, language or how many different male voices. pic.twitter.com/3KTssyHI4YHenri now speaking to Combrink. Judge says calls for lunch break. Henri has a list of questions for witness.&nbsp;Why didn't you call security or police?She says she got a fright, but didn't think they were going to kill each other. I didn't want to interfere.Op't Hof couldn't hear what the voices were saying. "It wasn't a happy sound. It sounded serious. It wasn't pleasant." #VanBredaIt makes sense when I look at the house that it came through the window, not through the walls or thick door.The noise was coming form that house. I can't say which room, but from that house.Combrink asked how she could say with certainty that it came from Van Breda house?&nbsp;She says when she looked up and walked to the door, she could hear it was coming from in front of her.&nbsp;It came from the direction of the Van Breda house.&nbsp;Her brain registered that it came from there.Combrink - we know the distance and that the window was closed. Op't Hof says she didn't go out because it's not in her nature to put her nose in other people's business.How would you differentiate if it comes from TV or two real people, Combrink says. Op't Hof replies the TV voices wouldn't continue, and there would be other snippets and advertisements.Combrink alludes that it could have been a TV where loud voices were emanating from.How to differentiate if it were people, or TV.Next witness: Stephanie Op't Hof, who lived @ 10 Goske Street, De Zalze. Heard what sounded like argument @ #VanBreda house night of 26 Jan.The night I put the childrne to bed at 20:00 and had work to do. [She is an interior decorator.]I had my laptop open in my living room. I worked the entire night. Number 12 right across from me.Galloway: how safe did you feel those two years?&nbsp;Very safe, considers it the safest place in Stellenbosch. Just lived there for the safety.Appears some hairs retrieved from scene had root attached. Lt Col Stewart says it was sent for DNA analysis, results not received. #VanBreda Jump to top