Denique Smith, Netwerk24Courtney Pieters' distraught mother, Juanita Pieters. (Denique Smith/Netwerk24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town &ndash; "He even had the audacity to hug me in the kitchen when I burst into tears over concern where my child is."This is how Juanita Pieters, 42, described the man who was arrested in connection with her three-year-old daughter Courtney&rsquo;s death, Netwerk24 reported.The suspect, 40, was arrested on Sunday afternoon. He is expected to appear in the Goodwood Magistrate's Court for a case of murder.Pieters says the man assured her that the community and police would find her daughter."He hugged me and said: 'Don&rsquo;t be afraid, we are going to find her.' It was the same man who sometimes gave my child sweets, money or a piece of bread as a treat. He came and comforted me. Does the man even have a conscience? He knew I was not going to see her again in the way I left her."Pieters said she wants to know why the man did this to her daughter."It was an innocent child. She was only three years old. What did the child do to him? What did I do to him that he would do such a thing to my child? He cared so much for Courtney. There&rsquo;s so many unanswered questions at the moment."'Someone I trusted'Courtney&rsquo;s body was found in a shallow grave in the Epping Industrial area, a street block from her home.On Monday afternoon, Pieters look tired. She said she is happy the police arrested the alleged murderer."I am very happy. I am also glad the police got him, because if any one of the community members found him they would've done something to him. It is someone that I trusted."According to a trusted source, CCTV footage led to the arrest of the man. He was arrested on Sunday afternoon in Saturn Close in Selberau, Elsies River.The footage shows a man walking with a plastic bag in the area of Bofors Circle in the Epping Industrial area, where Courtney&rsquo;s body was found, on Saturday afternoon.It also shows how the alleged killer twice visits the scene where Courtney&rsquo;s body was found, to cover it with leaves and twigs, the source said.Courtney was reported missing on Thursday May 4.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.