PHOTOS: suppliedRhoda Bowles (left, infection control manager) and Sister Yvonne Barnes from ground floor medical. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories NURSING is a profession like no other. From nursing students learning the basics of clinical nursing care to those nurses pursuing highly specialised fields of healthcare, this is a vocation that requires dedication, resilience, acute attention to detail, and a life-long passion for learning. Netcare St Anne s held their celebrations on Friday. This International Nurses Day, Netcare salutes the women and men who wear their uniforms with pride, as well as the students who aspire to take up this influential role in future, said Shannon Nell, director of nursing and nursing education at Netcare. Nurses fulfil a vital role in society, which extends beyond their working hours in a health-care facility. When we see a nurse s uniform, it speaks of knowledge in the service of care and a professional efficiency that is reassuring in times of illness or crisis. All of our nurses, from the highly experienced and specialised to those who are just starting out in the profession, have one distinction in common: each chose to apply their minds and their lives to the pursuit of excellence in caring for others, she added. Through studying and working in this demanding area of health-care service delivery, these exceptional individuals know that care is as much a science as it is an art. To all Netcare nurses, thank you all for the contribution you make each day for your patients, your respective teams, and for upholding Netcare s unique approach to care. Sister Metse Maphula, who is studying towards a post-basic qualification in critical care at Netcare Education s Gauteng South West campus said the knowledge and skills she and her classmates are attaining are equipping them to make a positive difference not only in the course of their official duties, but also at community level. Every day you get to help someone and make a positive difference in that person s life. We can offer a lot of help to people in our community, our family members and, of course, our patients. This is what motivates us to persevere and love what we do each day. There are challenges that come with nursing, but we are able to face these because we are a team, she said. Bridging course student, Kavitha Naidoo, who celebrates her birthday on International Nurses Day, says that she has found her practical work at Netcare Rehabilitation Hospital extremely rewarding, particularly as it provides the opportunity to contribute towards patients recovery. I have seen patients come into the facility with injuries seriously affecting their mobility, who are able to walk out of the hospital unassisted when they leave. As a nurse, it is the greatest privilege to help patients reach a stage where they feel I can do this again , where they can get back into family life and return to work. Care extends beyond physical well-being, it also has psychosocial dimensions, said Naidoo. - Supplied.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.