Amanda Khoza, News24(Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg &ndash; KwaZulu-Natal police have rejected claims that they terrorised a family and trashed their homestead during a raid in Xolobeni. A task team from the Ugu policing cluster, on the South Coast, was tasked with following up on allegations that there were drugs in a homestead in the Eastern Cape town of Xolobeni, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said on Wednesday. Mbhele said that, during the operation, police seized dagga they found hanging from ropes in rondavels. She said some of the dagga was lying on the floor. "We would request that those who make these allegations open a case at their local police station, so that it can be investigated." Amadiba Crisis Committee spokesperson Nonhlanhla Mbuthuma claimed that Port Shepstone police had stolen money and destroyed the homestead. Mbuthuma said that, around 03:00 on Monday, people living in the homestead of the Danca family, in Mtentu village, Xolobeni, were woken up by gun shots. A police vehicle arrived with policemen wearing casual clothes. "Twelve family members ran in panic when the shooting started. In the confusion, a disabled child was even left behind. The girl was first interrogated by the police, asking about dagga and the whereabouts of the others." Mbuthuma said the police officers allegedly walked around the homestead, firing shots. "Doors, windows and furniture in eight houses were destroyed. A cellphone was smashed. R900 was stolen. The homestead was completely trashed. Community members could watch the SAPS officers picking up empty cartridges before they left, obviously trying to hide the shooting. "The homestead is destroyed. The Danca family is now sleeping at neighbours. Today, they will go to Mpisi and open a case against the SAPS assailants." Mbuthuma said the Mpisi police station&rsquo;s station commander, a Captain Jukudu, did not know about the raid. "It has started again. We are now in danger. If police are looking for dagga, we have no problem. But to vandalise our homesteads, fire shots and steal, this is the behaviour of the old apartheid police. There were no difference between these SAPS officers and gangsters," Mbuthuma said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.