The Van Breda murder trial continues at the Western Cape High Court for day 14 of the proceedings. Jump to bottom Marli's hand injuries to her looks like sharp force injury to the wrist - typical defence injury, holding hands over whichever area is attacked.Bruising on back of hands, and on knuckle. Also small abrasion. Injuries could be seen in someone fighting back.Dr Tiemensma has read Henri's plea explanation. Galloway says he could recall certain details vividly, but couldn't correctly type words in a Google search.&nbsp;Dr Tiemensma says it was quite obvious some details were described in detail, others not. Says it interesting how "selective" it was.He could have fallen, abrasions and lacerations.I don't think he lost a lot of blood, tiny amount not enough to go into shock. I don't think he would have fainted due to blood loss.&nbsp;Don't expect him to be out for hours.Given Henri's plea explanation and photo of staircase - blood seen - would be area where he fell. Injuries consistent?No. Superficial abrasions don't cause blood spots like that.Abrasions to the back are superficial, only involving superficial layer of skin. Wouldn't fit in. His injuries had minimal blood.&nbsp;Won't result in active pooling blood.On the stab wounds: I am of the opinion that they are self inflicted, superficial and non fatal.In stark contrast to the rest of the injuries sustained.Dr Tiemensma: The cut marks were superficial. Incisions have even depth, parallel and avoid sensitive areas like nipples. The forearm wounds in keeping with self inflicted injuries, non lethal, even depth.Injuries in reachable areas.We are back.Next witness - Dr Marianne Tiemensma.Jonathan Oliphant of SAPS Criminal Record Centre said 53 prints found at #VanBreda house. Not all useable.Botha says the domestic worker let herself in at the side gate that Monday morning, 26 Jan.Were her fingerprints found? No.Botha holds axe and knife - axe facing toward him; knife held at blade, also pointing at him.Does it fit in with the print? Olifant does not want to speculate. Olifant says 3 prints found on knife, 2 unidentifiable.Olifant says the axe was sent to fingerprint lab. He can't testify on their behalf.&nbsp;If someone wore gloves, we wouldn't find it, Botha asks. No, Olifant says.Botha says State claims that he touched that axe and attacked people with it. If he handled it, wouldn't you expect to find a print? His print is on the knife? Jump to top