The Van Breda murder trial continues at the Western Cape High Court for day 13 of the proceedings. Jump to bottom Botha says he fell while chasing down the stairs, and again when he was ascending and saw family members on landing.Botha asks if it's possible that he was concussed after he passed out, resulting in him wetting himself.Albertse says it's possible.Botha asks if Henri could have suffered a concussion.He could have fallen on stairs and hit his head.This is possible, Albertse says.Swelling above Henri's eye - small chicken egg size, Botha says.Henri also went to see a private doctor that night, he also had two blue eyes, Botha says.Botha says he also had a cut on his thorax.Is this possible? Botha asks. "I can't say it's not at all possible," she says.He demonstrates again, showing horizontal cuts and superficial cuts are possible.They asked me to speculate on the method of the injuries. Albertse deferred.Once Dr Dempers did his tests on depth of wounds, came to 50mm. On the knife it looked clear that the edge of the knife still had blood on it, Botha says.She noted 10mm.Two officers were with him, Botha says,One asked you in Afrikaans if the wounds could be self-inflicted and you said you would look into it.She says she doesn't remember.She also took DNA and nail scrapings from him.She was contacted by police to answer certain questions. One was whether injuries could be self inflicted. Asked that it be referred to a specialist.As if he scraped against something.Injuries to head possible, but not kneeThe knob on his head is blunt trauma. It wasn't sharp - blunt force.Injuries to his back is an abrasion. Similar to grass burn.I just looked clinically.When I filled in my form, relooked and thought the scratches I had seen would be better described as a cut.A scratch tears skin. Cut would involve sharp object. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Albertse noted injuries including scratches, a superficial knife wound, scratch above nipple, right leg had an old scratch, but she noted swelling and bruising. Swelling above left eye.She didn't see the injuries as serious.If she feels need for medical attention, she would tell police to do so. She didn't in this case.She completed a J88 while he was present.She noted his length, 1.84m, with normal build. She would describe him as a tall and big man.District surgeon at Stellenbosch district hospital11:30 that morning, Henri was examined by her. Albertse says she was asked to note his injuries and that he had been a victim.Botha asks about Philander's calm demeanour, and how she was trained. Is that also a way you calm down a caller?&nbsp;She says it is.Judge Desai asks what percentage of calls to emergency call centre is prank calls.Philander - in last six months until Feb this year, 35 374 prank calls from 238 350 calls.Botha - Why did it take you so long? Is it because you didn't believe him?Yes, she replies.Ambulance dispatch spoke Afrikaans to Henri but managed to get the address from him within 2 minutes, Botha says. Philander says she did the background work and handed over the info.Botha says he referred her to 10 Allermann Street because that is the address he picked up on Google, offered to meet them outside. What else than trying to assist is he trying to do? "He was trying to assist," Philander says.Listen to the full emergency call by Henri #VanBreda here.https://t.co/wuzg5HN1Y3He asks her how clip ended up with the media. Philander says she doesn't know.Desai says giggle was an interpretation.Desai says it is quite clear that he stutters. Philander maintains she didn't pick it up, and doesn't sound that way to her.Philander says it sounds even more to her like a giggle.Botha puts it to her that Henri never giggled, and was slightly sobbing, and was saying please.Asks if she can refute this.Botha referring back to her statement - says she didn't mention the giggle.Philander says she couldn't get it out of her mind how he sounded. "That hesitancy".She in her statement says she heard the giggle when she listened to the recording.Botha asks who brought her attention to the second giggle.&nbsp;Philander says the call was on social media.Botha says it was said on social media that he was giggling.Botha says in his client's mind it didn't make sense to end call as he was already speaking to an operator. He didn't want to take the chance to put phone down and get through.Philander concedes that this is reasonable.Botha - what went wrong? Philander - no interruption, agitation, he didn't stop me at any time.&nbsp;It's an assault - he didn't bring that back up in any of the conversations.Botha - he did bring it up a few times.&nbsp;He gave you correct address form the outset - Philander says it was the correct address. Won't show on map because its in a secure complex.&nbsp;Now the system picks it up.LISTEN: Full emergency call between Henri van Breda and dispatchersOn Wednesday the full '911' call between Henri van Breda, the emergency operator and dispatchers was played in the Western Cape High Court.&nbsp;In conference with ambulance her opinion changed, she monitored the time to see holding on. Checked when started and how long he had taken on the call.Was it his fault call took so long?Philander says yes. Normally caller in this type of emergency, sets the tone.Botha asks "how on earth" this could that be the case if he was trying to remain calm and she didn't have to spend time to calm him down.&nbsp;Philander says the way he answered set the tone of the whole call.&nbsp;She remained suspicious throughout.Botha says the fact he remained polite to her is counting against him.&nbsp;She says throughout the call he sounded the same. Botha says that is not what he is hearing. Jump to top