Nomzamo Yuku @Nomzamoyuku Edwina Presence from Factreton is home safe after allegedly being kidnapped in a taxi last weekend. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Her family is in shock and wants justice after Edwina Presence from Factreton was allegedly kidnapped, robbed, beaten and left for dead last Saturday. Family members say they will not stay silent about her ordeal until the criminals have been found and people have got the message.Presence was allegedly kidnapped by five people in a taxi who beat her, robbed her of her belongings and abandoned her near Worcester on the evening of Saturday 22 April. The mother of five was reported as missing after her family had tried several times to reach her. They only found out that she was alive on Monday morning when Kensington police phoned them. She went missing after she left her home at around 09:00 to buy groceries at Maitland s Shoprite. She took a taxi to Bellville, hoping to get home sooner but she never did. Instead she spent days in hospital with severe injuries suffered during her kidnapping ordeal. Her nightmare apparently started when the taxi she was in passed her stop at 12th Avenue in Kensington and started to go even faster. When Presence questioned the driver s assistant he slapped her and told her to shut up and they started fighting. There were three other people one man and two women in the taxi who she thought were passengers, only to find out they were accomplices of her kidnappers. After they withdrew money from my bank card, they pulled my underwear off and they used it to choke me. At first I fought them and I would try to come through and fight again but they would not stop. I then decided to pretend I was dead, they kicked me and they were convinced I was dead and that is when they pushed me out of the taxi. When I knew it was safe for me I woke up and stumbled towards the bush. I just kept walking until I could not any more. I sat down and slept. The following morning I continued walking and I got tired and slept in the bush again. It was only on Monday morning that I reached a road. A lady gave me a lift towards Paarl. She dropped me before we got to the police station and I met another one who walked me to the Paarl police station. I was taken to the hospital. She says she was bleeding slightly for the first two days and would lose her consciousness and she believes she was drugged during her torture. They had pricked me on the head during the fight in the taxi; I think that was the reason I was weak and would pass out at times. Presence was admitted and treated for shock and injuries at Paarl hospital.She was discharged on Thursday and told People s Post she still had problems sleeping and had flashbacks.Kevin Alexander, an anti-crime activist in the area, says she is traumatised. We need to expose these types of incidents for public awareness. This kind of incident is not really common in Maitland and Kensington but more likely on the Cape Town and Bellville route, such as this one. The case of kidnap was opened at Paarl police station and is being investigated. Kensinton Police says they are not sure if they would get involved in the case as Edwina has not yet made a statement at the station yet and is expected to do so today (Tuesday). 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.