The Van Breda murder trial continued at the Western Cape High Court for day 16 of the proceedings. View updates as they happened here. Jump to bottom Henri had constricted pupils and slow reaction to light, Botha says.Tiemensma says constricted pupils could even be result of drugs, not limited to concussion.Enlarged photo of part of the staircase being shown to Dr Tiemensma. A blood spot can be seen. Henri says when he regained consciousness, he was on the stairs in that vicinity, and noticed the stain on the stairs. He now points to a blood spot on the elastic of the shorts Henri wore that morning. This, Botha says, is Henri's blood. Could stab wound have resulted in that spot? She says yes, if the blood matches his.The blood saturated onto his boxer shorts. If it is his own blood, could that smudge (on stairs) been caused by the stab wound? Botha says police didn't take a swab of this blood. She says it depends on the position of his body when he fell.She says she doesn't believe his abdominal knife wound was up to 50mm. A sturdy adult male his size has a layer of fat about 40mm thick. There was no indication that wound entered the peritoneal cavity. &nbsp;It was only in his subcutaneous fat.Adv Botha keeps arguing that the cuts could be caused by the knife in attackers hand.Dr Tiemensma is adamant that the wounds are self inflicted.She explains self-inflicted cuts:'When someone does this, they are in control of the cuts (how deep, the location).'Cutting and slashing means you don't have control of the movement, Tiemensma says. She says Henri's cuts are not caused by flicking movements of a knife.Botha shows with the knife how an attacker could have flicked at Henry's arm. Tiemensma says that movement would not have resulted in those wounds. She describes Henri's arm wounds as "so nice and neat" .Botha says while holding on to the assailants arm holding the knife, the attacker made a cutting movement across Henri's arm.Tiemensma says it would not be linear and equal; more haphazard as there is still a struggle.Adv Botha - Henri says initial movement of attacker was aiming towards his throat and he managed to pull his arm slightly down.&nbsp;Tiemensma - he definitely didn't strike anything close to the throat. You would expect a downwards sharp force injury toward the chest.The position described at the time of the wounds being inflicted is that there was pushing and pulling, slashing and stabbing, Tiemensma says. This does not correspond with the wounds.Why tease Henri #VanBreda with superficial wounds, Dr Marianne Tiemesma asked defence advocate Pieter Botha during cross examination. pic.twitter.com/Zd0Dg2M1oLDr Tiemensma notes strong contrast in #VanBreda family wounds Theirs extensive chop wounds; Henri's not inflicted with same intent or force.INFOGRAPHIC: Wounds sustained by Henri van BredaTiemensma says there is a strong contrast in comparison to his family's injuries.Extensive chop wounds caused by an axe. None show any characteristics that it was inflicted with the same type of intent or force.In this instance, it took place in the bedroom, at the foot of the bed, Galloway says. Tiemensma say two people faced each other with sharp objects in hands. Pushing and pulling. Holding on to each other would make it difficult to execute very uniform incision to another person's body.Would expect wounds in different directions if person pulls away.Reasons for describing some of his injuries as &nbsp;possibly self-inflicted injuries - if you look at the type of wounds, they are superficial and non-fatal. Only danger to life is if it becomes infected. Regular and equal depth, uniform, linear, no movement in the wounds, parallel, equally deep. They don't differ in depth.Tiemensma compiled a report with notes by Dr Albertse. She explained his mental health and emotional status as very quiet. She didn't appear to note any further concussion-like symptoms,Tiemensma says concussion will usually result in loss of consciousness for less than a minute. If for hours or more than a few minutes, its in keeping with a more serious injury, may show through severe headache, nausea and vomiting, needs to be evaluated medically.Adv Botha objects, saying Tiemensma's evidence is neurology. Galloway argues it's general medical terminology.Tiemensma &nbsp;also does clinical forensic work. Jump to top