The Van Breda murder trial continued at the Western Cape High Court, where Henri van Breda's initial statement was assessed, revealing numerous language and spelling errors. Jump to bottom Andre du Toit - Henri #VanBreda&#39;s uncle - will be final witness in trial-within-a-trial, expected to testify tomorrow morning. Adjourned.Adv Botha says mention of second suspect was omitted from statement. Sgt Malan insists Henri #VanBreda mentioned only 1 intruder.Adv Botha denies his client gave specific times or height of attacker. Malan maintains what Henri #VanBreda said is compiled in statement. pic.twitter.com/I0df22aJV8He also didn't give an exact height for the attacker, only said that the person was taller than him, Botha says.Botha says Malan's verson is not correct in terms of what Henri told him.&nbsp;Where the statement refers to specific times, he didn't give times and that Benecke had asked him about times by estimating, Botha says.Botha says his client gave his own height, and said the suspect was slightly taller.Malan maintains that this is what Henri told him.Henri #VanBreda&#39;s statement has numerous language, spelling errors; says it&#39;s not type of English he uses. Malan says he used Henri&#39;s words.Henri #VanBreda says he asked if he needed a lawyer before signing statement, claims Malan asked &#39;Why? Are you guilty?&#39;. Malan denies this.Asks him about how he recalled the times of his interaction with Henri. Malan says he had to look in his pocket book.He says the administrative section has it. Botha asks for copies, Malan says he will supply it to the court.&nbsp;Botha asks Malan to look at the statement of his actions that day.Taken September 2015.Why wait so long? Botha asks. During investigation he was asked to do it, Malan says.Was anything given to him to eat? No, Malan says.He says Henri didn't ask for anything.He was asked to sign, but before signing he asked if he needed a lawyer. Malan ostensibly asked 'Why? Are you guilty? Malan denied this.When Malan was done, he left the room, and Henri left to join his family.Henri's statement was certified.Botha asks Malan if after he finished the statement, if he gave Henri an opportunity to read it on the PC.Botha asks Malan if after he finished the statement, if he gave Henri an opportunity to read it on the PC. Yes, Malan says. Henri says he saw there were language and spelling errors, but he wanted to go home and just signed it.Malan says he printed it and that is the version Henri read.Malan says he may have typed incorrectly. &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;Spelling and language errors only.'All of us was' - Botha points out in paragraph 3.His client says this was definitely not English he would use, Botha says.Malan says there are errors. Botha asked if he paraphrased. Malan says he was objective, used every word Henri gave. He never added his own words.Refers to statement, Botha says there is a number of spelling and language errors.Malan confirms there are spelling errors.If it's not a witness, and it's an accused, it could be relevant whether the person has alcohol or drugs in it.That's correct, Malan responds.Botha says it would be strange to draw blood of a witness.To check for drugs or alcohol. Malan says it would be.Henri was asked if he had taken any drugs before the murders. Malan says he doesn't know of this.Dr Van Zyl said she was told by two officers that night that Henri was alleged accused. Henri's statement taken at 2:20. Malan confirms this.He can't remember if Henri gave his version of events more than once.Henri later arrived at the Reade-Jahn's home dressed in the board shorts, t-shirt and flip flops. Malan says he doesn't know.Bianca van der Westhuizen's (who Botha calls Henri's then-girlfriend) mother had bought it for him.He says Henri wore a t-shirt from Dr Albertse's room to the police station. Botha says Mr Du Toit and his wife were the only family members at scene. They say they didn't give him long pants.Malan says he didn't ask Henri that.Malan says his task had been to take his statement.Benecke was also at scene that morning. Apparently asked Andre du Toit how the family's relationship was. Du Toit said it was good, suspects he may had wanted to know if there was an arrangement.Defense alluding Henri #VanBreda was treated like a suspect, not a witness. Say he wasn&#39;t read his rights, given anything to eat or wear.Sgt Clinton Malan testified in trial-within-a trial Henri #VanBreda wore track pants, t-shirt when giving statement, not only underwear.Botha says Henri made it clear that he had heard another person, although he saw only one. Malan says he didn't mention another person.Botha says he told Benecke that he had only seen one of the attackers, and had heard others. Malan says Henri only mentioned one.Botha says he said he had only seen one. Malan says he never spoke of other people in the house.Was he asked to repeat his version? Not the whole version, Malan says. If Colonel had questions, he was asked about it.Malan was instructed to take the statement.Malan says Benecke introduced himself and said he was going to ask him some questions.Malan says he wasn't warned of his rights because it wasn't necessary. He was seen as a victim.Benecke described by Henri as a big man, saying he didn't introduce himself, just poured a Coke, said 'I dont believe a word of your bullshit story'.Malan said he didn't hear that.Malan says the office wasn't cold.The windows were open, Malan says.He doesn't know if there is air-conditioning in Benecke's office.Botha says while sitting there, he was given cigarettes and allowed to smoke.At one stage an officer came with food and drinks for officers, and he was given a Coke. Then taken to another office, Col Benecke's, says the aircon was set on cold. Jump to top