Jenna Etheridge, News24Armed police stand guard at the scene of a suspected terrorist attack during a pop concert by US star Ariana Grande in Manchester. (Paul Ellis, AFP) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories According to police 19 people have died and at least 59 are injured in a suspected terrorist attack at an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester, England. Watch the moment the explosion thunders around the arena. WATCHCape Town &ndash; No reports have yet come through of any South Africans affected by the explosion at the Ariana Grande concert in Manchester, northern England, the Department of International Relations and Co-operation (Dirco) said on Tuesday.&ldquo;It is too early. They are still going through who was at the concert. So far we have not been notified. It is a developing situation,&rdquo; spokesperson Clayson Monyela told News24.- Follow the Live Update here.Manchester police responded to an explosion at the conclusion of the Ariana Grande concert at Manchester Arena on Monday night.At last count 22 people, including children, were confirmed dead and around 50 people injured.&ldquo;The injured are being treated at six hospitals across Greater Manchester. My thoughts are with all those who have been affected and we are doing all we can to support them,&rdquo; Chief Constable Ian Hopkins said in a statement.&ldquo;We are currently treating this as a terrorist incident until we know otherwise. We are working closely with the national counter terrorism policing network and UK intelligence partners.&rdquo;- Read more: Ariana Grande suspends world tour&nbsp;- Photos of the scene from concert bombingThe Mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham, took to Twitter in the early hours of Tuesday morning to express his condolences.&ldquo;My heart goes out to families who have lost loved ones, my admiration to our brave emergency services. A terrible night for our great city,&rdquo; he said.Dirco was expected to release a statement later on Tuesday.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.