Mxolisi Mngadi and James de Villiers, News24(iStock) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Cape Town - A Johannesburg resident who says he was stabbed near Mzoli's Place in Gugulethu, has accused the eatery of not having enough visible security.The popular eatery, however, has since said that it has beefed up security as a result of the attack and that police have promised to patrol the area more often. Police have confirmed the incident.The holidaymaker, who asked not to be named, said he and his friends went to visit the restaurant on Sunday, April 30, shortly before 16:00. They had parked their car and had walked towards the venue, but realised it was packed to capacity."We decided to go back to the car and leave. While standing next to the car, three unknown men attacked me from behind for no reason," he said.He said one of the three men tried to stab him in the neck, but he managed to block him with his hand."I received a small scratch on my neck. Without even telling me what he wanted, he then stabbed me in my back and tried to snatch my phone from my hand. I managed to get away from him, but I fell on the ground about a metre away. He was adamant about killing me for my phone," he said."By miracle, while I was lying down, the attacker turned around and fled the scene with his accomplice."Nothing was taken.Additional security"All I have is a pinky-finger-deep stab wound in my lower back that serves as a reminder of how fortunate I am to still be alive." He said, while he did not want to harm Mzoli's reputation, he felt more security was necessary ."The fact that we were there shows that we support black business, but I'm worried about the lack of visible security there."Mzoli's manager Sisanda Mangele told News24 that they were aware of the incident.Mangele said security had been increased as as result of the attack, and that police had promised to patrol the area more often."This is not only a Mzoli's problem. Crime is on the increase across the nation&hellip; it's not an opinion, it's a fact. If you look at the statistics, you'll see," Mangele said.Mangele insisted that Mzoli's was safe for visitors."You do not have to take any precaution before you come here," she said.After the attack, the Johannesburg resident said he received medical attention at Vincent Pallotti Hospital in Pinelands. He reported the matter to the Gugulethu police station.Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said no arrests had been made. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.