Jeanette Chabalala, News24Patrick Wisani in the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court. (Wim Pretorius, News24) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - The mother of slain Nosipho Mandleleni says she is heartbroken after former African National Congress Youth League regional leader Patrick Wisani was sentenced to 20 years' jail for killing the young woman."My heart is broken," Noxolo Mandleleni told reporters outside the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg."I don't feel good. I wanted him to stay longer in prison. I wish he could have been in prison for 30 years."She was speaking after Judge Ismail Mohamed sentenced Wisani to 20 years for murder, one year for assault and one year for intimidation. The one-year sentences would run concurrently with the murder sentence."Nothing will ever bring back my child. He should be punished so that this doesn't happen to anyone else's child."'Careless actions'Maurice Smithers of the Yeoville Bellevue No to Gender Based Violence welcomed the guilty verdict."The judge took this case seriously. We are disappointed at the sentence, particularly because Wisani didn't show any remorse at all."The only time when he showed emotions was when he was angry, Smithers said.The court gallery was packed to capacity with members of People opposing Women Abuse (POWA) and Sonke Gender Justice."The accused's actions were careless. The accused showed no remorse," Mohamed said."I agree this was not a premeditated murder, but rather, that you acted in rage and anger."Mohamed said the 31-year-old was a first offender and educated.Brutality&nbsp;On November 21, 2016, the court found him guilty of killing Mandleleni, his girlfriend, in their Yeoville home in September 2015.Judge Mohamed had previously said Wisani beat Mandleleni like a slave master would beat his slaves."This was not two people arguing and someone punched with a fist."Wisani's lawyer, Corne Kriel, agreed that it was a vicious attack, but without the intention to commit murder. He had asked for a minimum 15-year sentence, part of which should be suspended. His client was still young and could be rehabilitated.Prosecutor Faghre Mohamed argued for a minimum sentence of life imprisonment."The pictures of the deceased before the court show the brutality of this act. The deceased must have endured excruciating pain."Wisani was heartless for allowing her to bleed to death, he was arrogant and had intimidated witnesses, he said.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.