The Young Women Inspiring Social Engagement (YWISE) group in Ocean View has been nominated for an international peace award. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A group of young women in Ocean View has been nominated for an international award.Young Women Inspiring Social Engagement (YWISE) has been nominated for a Hero Award by an international foundation that uses Nobel Peace Prize winners (including Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu) to inspire the youth across the world. The local group was formed by Shona Mentor, Antonia Carelse, Donna Castro and Euodia Samson with the aim of producing positive leaders and improving opportunities for young women.The YWISE project looks to empower young women through social engagement by providing a platform to nurture personal growth and having constant discussions to help build confidence and courage and strengthen communication skills. The participants come together to inspire and encourage each other. The group also educates them on peer pressure, sex, social etiquette, bullying, boundaries and leadership.The PeaceJam Foundation has named YWISE as a semi-finalist in this year s Hero Award, which is part of the US-based foundation s One billion acts of peace campaign. With projects spanning 10 countries, these heroes are helping combat poverty, racism, slavery, and the mistreatment of indigenous peoples. They are empowering women in conflict zones, supporting veterans, and taking on bullying, racism, and hate speech, the foundation says in a statement.The local group has been nominated in the Best up and coming peace maker category. V The group meets on Fridays at 17:30 at the clubhouse at the multipurpose centre in Ocean View. If you are a young woman between the ages of 13 and 18 and interested in joining, call Shona on 078 506 4964. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.