Cape Town &ndash; Some Twitter users have defended claims by Minister of Women in the Presidency Susan Shabangu that abuse and murder victim Karabo Mokoena was "weak".On Tuesday, Shabangu told eNCA's weekly investigative current affairs programme Checkpoint that the 22-year-old part-time student was "weak and hence she became a victim of abuse"."As she tried to deal with her situation in sharing it with other abused women, she ended up being a victim of abuse," Shabangu said.She was killed, allegedly by her boyfriend Sandile Mantsoe, during an abusive relationship.The last time Mokoena was seen alive was on April 27, when she returned to Mantsoe's Sandton apartment.Her burnt body was found by police in a veld in Lyndhurst, Johannesburg on April 29, after she was reported missing the day before.Some Twitter users argued that Shabangu may have been "misinterpreted" and "poorly expressed" herself. I'm pretty convinced Minister Shabangu is being misinterpreted. Nifuna nje uxhwithana qha apha.I think Minister Susan Shabangu was betrayed by the language that came with the ship.&mdash; Andile Mlondo (@AndileMlondo) May 24, 2017I really appreciated minister Shabangu's honesty on the Karabo matter. Hopefully her words didn't fall on death ears.I saw min Shabangu comments I think she just used a provocative word.. she is right....self esteem has a lot to do with abuse #KaraboMokoena&mdash; Master Ntsiki (@ntsikimazwai) May 24, 2017Sober up South Africa Susan Shabangu may have a valid point;how do you explain that her family knew about it but did nothing that's WEAKHowever, not many were in agreement with this stance. Other say that her words were "irresponsible and ignorant". Those defending Min. Shabangu on being quoted out of context probably laughed like mad when Fikile Mbalula called late Karabo a "yellowbone"Minister Susan Shabangu is out of touch with South Africa's issue of men putting the lives of girls/womxn's lives in dangerMinister Suzan Shabangu labelled #KaraboMokoena 'weak' what a choice of word from someone belonging to a WEAK government!It was very irresponsible &amp; ignorant of Susan Shabangu to say that victims of abuse, like Karabo, are "weak". #CheckpointMinister Shabangu needs to step down. Now it is clear why our struggles are dismissed. Our representative stands with our oppressors. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.