MANY people remember their mothers and mother figures on Mother s Day it s the one day of the year to show appreciation..Mother s Day falls on different dates throughout the world. In South Africa, Australia, Canada and the United States it is held on the second Sunday in May. In Britain it falls three weeks before Easter Sunday so is different every year.It is an annual public holiday in countries such as Costa Rica where it is celebrated on 15 August, in Georgia on 3 May, Samoa, 2 Monday in May and Thailand on 12 August.Legend has it that recognition of this day can be dated back to the spring celebrations held in ancient Greek civilisation to honor Rhea, the mother of the gods. Later, Mothering Sunday in the United Kingdom was traditionally a day for people to visit the church where they were baptised and young servants were given the day off to visit their mother.Many people believe that Mother s Day is now overcommercialised, with card companies, flower shops, jewelry stores, gift shops, restaurants, hotels, and department stores advertising promotions and special deals for this event.White carnations are the traditional symbol for the day. There is an International Mother s Day Shrine dedicated to the preservation of motherhood - it is located with a museum at Grafton, West Virginia, and aims to preserve, promote and develop the spirit of motherhood.To polish your linguistics Mother s Day in French is F te des M res, in German, Muttertag, in Spanish, Dia de las Madres, in Norwegian, Morsdag; and in Romanian, Ziua Mamei.Throughout the world, in many different languages, mothers have over the years promoted some of the following myths - "Stop cracking your knuckles, it will give you arthritis." There is no medical proof on this, but its not particularly good for you anyway."Watching TV too close will hurt your eyes and make you blind." This can put a strain on your eyes, but not cause blindness."It's cold outside - if you don't bundle up you're going to get sick." Catching a cold is a result of a cold virus, not from playing outside in the cold."Make sure to clean behind your ears - if not, potatoes will start growing there." This is a scare tactic to get the children into the bath and wash behind the ears."If you swallow a watermelon seed, if will grow inside your stomach." This is not going to happen.Happy Mother s Day.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.