Ntombizodwa MakhobaMandla Hlatshwayo and his wife, Amanda, on their wedding day. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Seven months before Mandla Hlatshwayo was murdered, he handed over his half of the family home to his ex-wife Amanda.Amanda&rsquo;s friends say the TV actor and Jozi FM DJ did it because he was a good father and a stand-up ex-husband. Hlatshwayo (40) gave away his share of the family&rsquo;s more than R1m Kibler Park home to secure the future of two of his children, Kutlwano (7) and Bonolo (14).But this week, his family moved to prevent Amanda (36) and the children from occupying the house where he lived alone.On Wednesday, the Hlatshwayo family placed security guards outside the house.&ldquo;Amanda was shocked when she arrived [at the house] and found security guards. She then called her lawyer to intervene and to make sure the Hlatshwayos were aware that she was in fact the owner of the house,&rdquo; said a family member. On Friday, when City Press called Hlatshwayo&rsquo;s aunt Maggie for comment, she said she was sick and tired of journalists calling her at this difficult time. Before we could tell her the reason for the call, she said: &ldquo;We are burying Mandla tomorrow and we would like to bury him in peace. Amanda must stop with her nonsense. Mandla and Amanda are divorced and we have proof.&rdquo;The former Generations actor, known for his role as Siphiwe Phosa, and his friend Oupa Duma were shot dead during a robbery at the Meli pub in Pimville, Soweto, last Sunday. They were trying to rescue two women from four gun-wielding men who were robbing them. He was buried at the Olifantsvlei Cemetery in Johannesburg yesterday. Hlatshwayo had a complicated love life. He had two children with Amanda, who is a psychologist, and two young children with his partner Mami, whom his family regards as his rightful widow. Despite his and Amanda&rsquo;s divorce, they remained close and he used to visit her and the children every week at her parents&rsquo; house in Kagiso, where they lived.Friends of Amanda insist that she and Hlatshwayo were in love and about to get back together. One friend even quoted Amanda as saying: &ldquo;Girlfriend or no girlfriend, I believe everything that Mandla told me and we were going to fix things. I really loved Mandla.&rdquo;Said another friend: &ldquo;After their divorce, Mandla occupied the house while Amanda opted to go back to her parents&rsquo; house.&ldquo;Mandla always wanted to fix things with Amanda. Mandla knew that when he was going through tough times, Amanda was his shoulder to cry on. His last words to Amanda were: &lsquo;I still love you, I want us to go out for dinner and fix everything.&rsquo; &ldquo;Mandla lived two lives, but he loved his children and Amanda.&rdquo; Another friend said the couple loved each other so much that &ldquo;on the same day their divorce was finalised, they still walked hand in hand&rdquo;. Amanda declined to comment, saying she did not want to sound like a bitter ex-wife, but she agreed that her daughter, Bonolo, could speak to City Press.&ldquo;I will miss our Friday drives together. He used to pick me up from school every Friday,&rdquo; Bonolo said. She said her &ldquo;daddy died a hero, but he was also my hero&rdquo;.&ldquo;I remember Kutlwano almost drowned in the pool when he was two and my dad saved him. Whenever my dad witnessed commotions in the streets, he would stop and help. That&rsquo;s how he was and nobody could stop him,&rdquo; she said with tears in her eyes.&ldquo;Before he died, he had promised to buy my younger brother and me school uniforms. This week, he was supposed to accompany me to my music function at school. Unfortunately, he is not alive any more.&rdquo;Bonolo described her dad as a great cook. &ldquo;He had a way of preparing food and I will miss his breakfasts. He would just prepare a simple breakfast, but the final product would be so delicious.&rdquo;One of the lessons she learnt from her dad was: &ldquo;You can&rsquo;t have everything in life, but when you want something, you must go for it.&rdquo;She wants to follow in his footsteps. &ldquo;I want to sing and act too in honour of my dad,&rdquo; she said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.