The Van Breda murder trial continues at the Western Cape High Court for day 11 of the proceedings. Jump to bottom A large part of skull had been shaved for ops. Could disinfectant have given this appearance, Botha asks? Stuart says that is a possibility.Court is adjourned.Hair was also treated - could be dyed. This is Marli's sample.Sample taken two-and-a-half months after the murders.Macroscopic findings are subjective, but are peer-reviewed, Stuart says.His finding was that the hair was straight and blonde.Hair found on Marli's panty and t-shirt are longer, Botha says. Yes, says Stuart.What are the chances of those hairs coming from the head of my client on that day? Botha asks Stuart. Chances are slim, Stuart says.The chances, with respect are nil, Adv Botha responds. Yes, Stuart says.In his report, Stuart says the length of the hairs in exhibit I are 200mm&nbsp;and longer.Exhibit HH3 - photo of Henri the morning of the incident. His hair was 30mm at most, Botha says.Seven weeks later, his hair was between 50 and 80mmHair starts between middle and ring finger, curls around her forefinger, eventually going across her palm.Refers to photo of Marli's right hand clutching a long blonde hair.Longer than 10cms, Botha asks?Stuart agreesStuart says he found six hairs in exhibit I.Botha says it would be difficult to mistake six hairs for one.Stuart says he didn't receive an exhibit marked AA (of the hair).Botha says Appolis refers to the examination on the 27 Jan at Stellenbosch Mediclinic - both hands were bloody and one hair was found.Desai says that would be a remarkable coincidence.Stuart said he found 14 hairs with the use of a microscope.Towel would also contain hair, Botha points out. Stuart concedes.Botha asks Stuart how he knew she had been wearing the panty. He says he couldn't have known that unless he had read the covering letter.Stuart says its coincidence.Botha says blood soaked t-shirt, panty and towel used to cover her was collected by police while Marli was in hospital.Botha asked if she had been grasping the towel, could she have gotten hairs in her hand from the towel? Stuart says it is a possibility.The docket is then handed over to Stuart, whereafter it is in his physical custody.It is already in the docket, but not sealed anymore, Botha asks? Stuart says it is resealed before it comes to him, although he "might be mistaken".Another officer would open the sealed bag, document what is inside, then sends samples to Stuart.It is couriered to Stuart in one docketBotha asks if clerk would open it, or Stuart? He says another officer opened it and attached it to docket.Botha says in April 2015 cover letter (from SAPS) Stuart was told whose samples those were.Stuart says he only looks at the hair. In your statement, you made a mistake when you refer to the reference kit number? Yes, Stuart says.Botha says he finds it strange because this is the number you concentrated on. Stuart replies that its an easy mistake to make.Stuart says he uses the kit number as the reference numbers.He reiterates that he refers to kit numbers, which is the only important number. He doesn't look at the names linked to that, he says.Botha continues cross-examining Lt Col StuartBotha: You are not saying that they are the same hairs? Stuart - I only state that it shows resemblance.Henri #VanBreda heads back into court for the second half of proceedings for the day. pic.twitter.com/z5UO3ngaNiWhen asked where on statement he said there were foreign hairs, Lt Col Stuart claimed he wasn&#39;t required to as it was implied. #VanBredaLt Col Stuart was also slammed for not indicating that some hair from the scene didn&#39;t correspond with family&#39;s samples provided. #VanBredaLt Col Stuart claimed he didn&#39;t know whose hair he was analysing. Adv Botha rubbishes this, referring to SAPS&#39; email instructions. #VanBredaThe hair found in Marli's hand was similar to that of Henri #VanBreda, Lt Col Henry Stuart found. pic.twitter.com/PrtNdQHWyQStuart - Best way to answer is when I received the exhibits... I waited until I received all, at the time I had already forgotten what it said in the cover letters and references. I work as objectively as possible. I didn't look at the docket again until I was subpoenaed.Botha - turn to page 7. Letter dated April 2015 from a constable with details of incident - only hair of Marli was outstanding due to her state. Asked that it be compared to other samples.Botha - in the letter you are told what they want you to do. You did compare the hair sample with the reference sample from Henri van Breda.He tells you what his sample number is. So when you did you reexamination you know that the reference sample was that of Mr Van Breda.Stuart - Theoretically yes.Letter to Stuart form Col Benecke of Stellenbosch SAPS on 20 March 2015:Confirms they were investigating murder charge, long blonde hair was found in Marli's hand, and samples of Henri, Martin and Teresa were sent.Hair samples were taken from Henri. Col Benekce writes and says long blonde hair found in Marli's palm.Sample taken from suspect, indicated in the letter.Judge Desai - why didn't you report the fact that some of the hair did not match?&nbsp;Was it not a duty on your part as an expert?Stuart - it wasn't expected to state which were foreign.Can you show the court where did you say in your statement there were unknown hairs?Stuart - I didn't say that. I wasn't required to say that. &nbsp;It is implied.Botha &nbsp;- how many times have you testified as an expert witness?Stuart - three timesBotha - Samples are of five family members. 3.1 is that of Marli. You didn't know at the time.&nbsp;Despite analysing it, there were hairs in exhibit K that you couldn't link to the family. Unknown hairs.Stuart - yes.&nbsp;There were unknown hairs on some exhibits.Botha - that can only be correct because you didn't examine all 14. Is that a fair statement? Stuart - I did all 14 and compared it to the reference sample. There were some that didn't correspond.Botha - how many of the hairs in 3.6 (14 hairs) did you compare with reference sample 3.1? Stuart - all of them. Jump to top