EVERY dog has its day, so dog owner Ted Holden rediscovered on the weekend when their 15-year-old family dog fell in a stormwater manhole and was rescued by SPCA. While taking our two dogs for their usual afternoon outing, and letting them loose from their leashes they bounded off in search of a tree. When I later looked around for the smaller and older dog, I noticed she had disappeared. After a search I discovered she had gone down into a storm-water manhole, from where I heard her crying or yelping for help, Holden said.He said from the manhole, she then had crawled into one of the 400mm pipes where her cry was coming from. Being too large to venture into the manhole, I looked around and the only person I could see to help was a gardener, Lindilani, working in one of the neighbouring premises. He at first was reluctant, but when he heard my dog was in a drain, he came to see how he could help. When he could see no way to help he decided to call his employer Zane Raw who is fortunately known to me, he added.Holden said Raw, hearing of his plight, quickly came to see if he could help. Realising we needed a smaller built person to enter the manhole, he called his son Schalk to see if he would be able to climb down into the manhole, Holden added.He said Schalk climbed down, in spite of being slightly claustrophobic, and having recently recovered from a broken arm, now still with his wrist in bandages. After looking in both drain pipes, Schalk could not see the dog, but he could hear her crying. We then decided to see if there were other manholes in which we could climb down and see where the dog had crept to. We found one 20 metres up from the main manhole, which when opened and inspected proved the dog had not gone that way. Schalk, then suggested, when he got out of the manhole, that his dad should call the SPCA, Holden said.By this time Raw s wife, Jaqueline carrying her baby came across to help lend support. Three young boys, who were passing by also volunteered to climb down the manholes to help look how far the dog had crawled. However, within a short while of contacting the SPCA, Dawn du Plooy, who was on call duty, and her husband arrived. Dawn very professionally quickly took over and discovered another manhole about 30 metres away, under some trees. Schalk was quick to climb down and look for the dog, which was now further down towards the road, Holden said. Once again, Dawn located a manhole on the side of the road some 100 metres further down where it appeared that my dog was stuck about halfway down. After some debating, we decided to get some water from a neighbouring house. Another neighbour of ours, Carl Booysen, lent me his garden hosepipe. But at last, after allowing a good amount of water to flow in the top manhole, my dog was washed out, Holden added. I can t express how relieved and glad every one of us was to see the dog looking tired, but oblivious of her experience and our joint concern for her survival. I pay tribute and give my heartfelt thanks to all who helped save my dog. What would we do without our SPCA and our good neighbours? Holden said.- Supplied. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.