ReporterFrom left are Lucia Mtshake (Alexander Road High teacher and BWA Task Team leader), Carla Daniels (Otto du Plessis High), Chanelle Minnie (Cillie High), Lolwethu Vice (Tamsanqa High) and Vuyelwa Breakfast (Walmer High). Photo:SUPPLIED Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories A GROUP of about 100 matric girls were empowered and inspired by the Maximizing Your Potential theme and overriding message of the ninth annual Port Elizabeth Businesswomen s Association (BWA) Grade 12 Workshop which took place at Linkside High School last month. The workshop has been one of the BWA s key initiatives since 2009 and aims to reach out to young girls who are preparing for their future after school. The inspiring and informative workshop was presented to learners from 10 schools in the city. Other speakers included Bernadette Nel-Naud of Atlas Security, Bajabulile Mayaka, who is part of the Golden Key NMMU Chapter, and Hlubi Hewitt Coleman. BWA chairperson Michelle Brown urged the girls to follow the organisation s philosophy by passing on their new-found knowledge. At BWA, we strive to lead the way for younger generations of businesswomen to develop, be empowered and inspired so that they, in turn, can leave a legacy for others to follow, she said. This year, participating schools included Cillie, Linkside, Walmer, Booysens Park, Ethembeni Enrichment Centre, Alexander Road, Otto du Plessis, Andrew Rabie, Tamsanqa High School and the Ubuntu Education Fund. The learners who attended the generously sponsored workshop each received a goody bag of gifts, as well as a comprehensive manual of the morning s presentations.Students from Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University s (NMMU) voluntary leadership programme, Beyond the Classroom (BTC), helped bridge the generations and facilitated networking and discussion among the girls from different schools and backgrounds. Once again, we at BWA are thrilled to host these young women and, through our partnerships with Global Load Control and Algoa Bus Company, we are paying it forward by informing, advising and developing young women to make their way in the world post-school, Brown concluded.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.