Dr Fay Nqoloba, extreme right, in blue jacket with the Young Warriors at the NRM Gateway. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Forty learners from Dunoon and Khayelitsha experienced a Freedom Day with a difference when they visited the Robben Island Heritage Museum last weekend.All members of Young Warriors, a group formed by Dr Fay Nqoloba, they spent two days visiting the museum and learning a lot about history.Dr Nqoloba, also fondly known as Ma Fay also runs Woman Warrior, an organisation aimed at empowering women. The aim of the excursion was to break away and give these learners time to reflect and ponder on their lives, she said.After a rousing welcome on arrival, Ayanda Woji and the learners were then introduced to the Robben Island heritage by Luvuyo Ndzuzo who kept his audience captivated with its rich history.Apostle Mthuthuzeli Richard Mbola addressed the learners on purpose-driven life urging them to stay focussed. There are many distraction out there and we want you to chose the right ways in life, chose right association and most importantly depend on God, he said.Mbola later addressed the learners on leadership when they visited the Sobukwe Complex where the PAC leader was incarcerated in solitary confinement. Learners interacted greatly with facilitators, even asking probing questions.Zola Business School teacher Phelo Mvenyo said this was because the Young Warriors had studiously prepared for the trip . They took this very seriously and they knew what was expected of them in terms of participation, Mvenyo said.He said it was clear to him that the visit the to the island had honed their leadership skills and thirst for knowledge .Mvenyo added that the learners were inspired by the great stories they gleaned from the island.Ma Fay was also pleased with the level of participation from the learners. I am thrilled with the response we received from them. They had an inspiring Freedom Day, she said.She thanked all the facilitators and partners of the Young Warriors. I thank all those involved in this, all those who championed and co-ordinated community programmes, she said.One of the learners was Nkwenkwezi Mbande and who was very excited about the trip.His father Mzomhle Mazitshana said Nkwenkwezi returned from trip with much enthusiasm . He related to us about the things they learnt at the island during the trip. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.