File: City Press (File photo) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Most Zimbabweans don t have any faith in bond notes but they still trust President Robert Mugabe, a new survey claims.Njabulo Ncube, News24 Harare - Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's top aide and government minister has shrugged off charges he is working together with the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema to topple the Zanu-PF strongman.State media on Sunday alleged that Saviour Kasukuwere, the Zanu-PF political commissar, who doubled as the local government minister, was plotting with Malema to stage a coup against Mugabe, 93.Mugabe was currently battling factionalism within the ruling party, as the race to succeed him got murky.The Sunday Mail, the largest circulating state-owned newspaper, claimed that Kasukuwere and Malema had the backing of a British agent named Lord Robin Renwick. It said that Renwick was the architect of the short-lived administration of Bishop Able Muzorewa in 1978.Renwick, the paper added, was the United Kingdom ambassador to South Africa during apartheid.The report quoted one of Mugabe&rsquo;s provincial ministers Martin Dinha."During the meeting convened by Advocate Jacob Mudeda, I submitted the allegation that Cde Kasukuwere is working with Julius Malema because they both share the ambition to take over from power from presidents Mugabe and [Jacob] Zuma," Dinha told The Sunday Mail, further chronicling how Kasukuwere facilitated Malema&rsquo;s visit to Zimbabwe in 2010."...Kasukuwere and Malema see themselves in the same light. They want to run with the idea that the youth are the leaders of tomorrow and tomorrow is today...," Dinha said.But Kasukuwere, who was under fire from a camp which wanted Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa to take over from Mugabe and pushing for the veteran leader to axe him, told News24 the allegations were patently false."It's nonsense uttered by a deranged mind," Kasukuwere said, adding that Dinha was grasping at straws. "He is helplessly desperate. Someone needs medical help."Last week Kasukuwere filed a $1m lawsuit against Dinha and the state media over allegations he was intent on overthrowing Mugabe.Kasukuwere hinted on Monday that he would institute another legal action over the latest allegations."See you in court. He who alleges must prove," said Kasukuwere.Efforts to get a comment from the EFF were unsuccessful.Social media reacted to the claims. See tweets belowContinuing its usual conspiracy peddling, Sunday Mail today claims Kasukuwere is "collaborating" with @Julius_S_Malema to topple Mugabe@Hon_Kasukuwere Oh no! Those ridiculous fictitious stories have started. Malema funding Kasukuwere? Using his RSA parliamentary salary? Tibvirei apa!May @SundayMailZim soul rest in peace,this paper is dead,has anyone read the Malema-Kasukuwere article,its really shameful@Hon_Kasukuwere So it's @Julius_S_Malema now funding Zanupf wen all long reverse alleged. NPC continue with good work even Jesus persecuted@Hon_Kasukuwere These frivolous claims against @Julius_S_Malema and @EFFSouthAfrica are embarassing n shameful...#ZanuPF is desperate and finished24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.