WITH Mother s Day behind us and Father s Day already looming on the horizon, the focus has now shifted to dads.Father s Day is celebrated to recognise the contribution that fathers and father figures make in the lives of their children. It doesn t hurt that presents usually form part of the celebrations.Generally, when one thinks of a man and the kind of gift he would appreciate, various tools immediately come to mind.That is why the Co-op Mica is the place to go for DIY Dads. They stock everything you might need for your next DIY project in one convenient location. There are many reasons to do certain things yourself around the house or office: you save time and money and it is the perfect time to bond with your children.With your children underfoot, you have someone who can do all the easy, time-consuming jobs like painting and you can train them to do the less appealing items on what often feels like a never-ending to-do list.DIY is a great way to upgrade an item, redesign a room or just as an outlet for pent-up emotions. Most of the time, you don t even need to do much. A few small changes can make a big difference in the look and feel of something.You don t need a lot of experience either. The right kind of tools will do most of the work for you.The Co-op Mica offers a wide range of equipment for DIY work, from smaller item like nails and fasteners to larger power tools.F-type sash clamps are handy for holding woodwork articles together in gluing stages, especially when you are a another pair of hands short.The Ryobi Sabre Saw XRS-18 is ideal when you want to cut wood, metal or even meat in the processing stage during hunting season.When you feel like doing work that is a bit more detailed, the Ryobi Sliding Compound Mitre Saw CSS-1800 can be used for finer woodworking such as cutting picture frames at the request of your better half or making bigger furniture for the man cave. Just remember to always take safety precautions when working with power tools, whether you are a pro at it or not.Just think, by the time your project is finished, you will have crossed something off the hated to-do list, probably learnt something new in the process and your better half will be in love with you all over again. The scraped knuckles and sore muscles will definitely be worth it.So, get your list, your kids and your tools and get started on your next project.For more info or advice on your personal DIY needs visit The Co-op Mica, located in the Willow Road Shopping Centre on the corner of Circular Drive and Willow Road, or contact the sales team on 041 007 0580.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.