VOTING stations will be open from 7 am to 7 pm today in the hotly contested Nquthu by-election in which 359 candidates (238 ward and 121 PR candidates), representing 14 political parties are contesting the 31 Council seats. There are 81 085 registered voters in the 116 voting districts. There has been intense campaigning in the district as the leaders of the ANC, IFP, DA, NFP and EFF have held gatherings, carried out door to door visits and each political party promising prompt service delivery to Nquthu which is impoverished and lacks basic infrastructure.Apart from the five national political parties the nine other parties contesting the election are Academic Congress Union, African Independent Congress, African Mantungwa Community, African People s Convention: Black First Land First, Forum 4 Service Delivery, National Democratic Convention, National People s Ambassadors and National Religious Freedom Party. Voter turnout in the 2016 municipal elections was 58.27%. In that election the Inkatha Freedom Party won 15 seats, the ANC won 14, the National Freedom Party won two seats, and the DA and EFF won one seat each. However, despite seven attempts to hold council meetings to elect a mayor, etc., the municipality remained dysfunctional and in February Cogta officially dissolved the council and declared that a by-election to elect a new council would be held on 24 May.Voters are reminded that they must be registered in a voting district within the ward being contested to be eligible to vote. The control of Umzinyathi District Municipality depends on which party achieves a majority in the election the main parties claiming that there is no doubt they will win Nquthu and run Umzinyathi. There has been extensive national coverage of the election in the press, radio and television. Prelimnary results om Thurtsday objections allowed till 5 p.m. Friday and the fiual results will be nanounce3d on Saturday.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.