Mandla MahasheSeven people were arrested after being caught with boxes of stolen chicken in Zwelitsha Nyanga. Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories The Nyanga SAPS has warned parents to stop taking in stolen goods after seven people were caught with boxes of stolen chicken.According to SAPS, the three women and four men aged between 23 and 57 were nabbed on Tuesday after a truck was accosted near Langa. The truck was allegedly hijacked by three armed suspects when the driver stopped at a red traffic light in Vanguard Drive near Langa. The suspects took over the driving and blind-folded the driver, stashed him inside the boot of a car and drove away with him. They later dumped him in Mfuleni, said police spokesperson Captain Ntomboxolo Sitshitshi. The truck was later found in Zwelitsha were more than a hundred boxes of chicken were found hidden in seven houses. In some of the houses the boxes were found stashed under beds and couches. Cases of hijacking and possession of stolen property will be investigated but the suspects who hijacked the truck are still at large, she explained. Once charged the suspects are expected to appear in the Athlone Magistrate Court for the possession of stolen property. The Station Management would like to appeal to the parents of the area to refrain from accepting stolen goods and must engage their children and teach them to refrain from such actions. Crime can only be deterred when parents take a stand to say no, she said. Sitshitshi also urged motorists within the Nyanga, Gugulethu and Philippi areas to be vigilant as incidents of hijackings are on the rise. She gave the following advice to motorist to avoid hijackings: . Plan your route in advance . Be on the look-out for suspicious people and vehicles following them. Keep a safe distance between you and a vehicle in-front of you to make it easy to drive away if anything may happen. . Avoid driving with windows open and keep doors locked at all times and lock valuables in the boot of the vehicle, out of sight of the criminals. . Do not give lift to strangers . Avoid stopping at remote places and when seeing suspicious people, leave early so that you arrive at your destination in time. . Avoid using cell phones while drivingShe also gave tips on how to handle a hijack situation: . If confronted by hijackers, the aim is to survive the crime. Be cool and not threaten or challenge the hijacker do exactly as told by hijackers. . Surrender your vehicle and move away. Remember property can be replaced but lives cannot.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.