Elvis Ramosebudi. (Gulshan Khana, AFP, file) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - Alleged "coup plotter" Elvis Ramosebudi was granted R3 000 bail by the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court on Monday.Magistrate Vincent Ratshibvumo said he was not a flight risk, there was no evidence suggesting he had been outside South Africa, and he did not own a passport.The unmarried father of one had a bank balance of zero and therefore there was no indication that he would flee the country."The chances that he will evade the trial are minimal. He also did not incite anyone into his plans. In conclusion, he remains innocent until proven guilty,&rdquo; Ratshibvumo said.Bail was set at R3000, even though Ramosebudi said he could only afford R1000.He had allegedly hatched a plot to assassinate President Jacob Zuma, his Cabinet ministers and members of the Gupta family.His bail conditions are that he had to appear on all court dates, not directly or indirectly contact any witnesses or all those he had listed as "state capture beneficiaries", not change his address without notifying the investigating officer, and report to a local police station every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.Advocate Johan Badenhorst previously said the State would oppose bail as Ramosebudi had travelled from Soshanguve to Johannesburg to present his plan to undercover agents. He had a well-constructed plan and the tools to carry it out."The fact that he would actually drive and submit his plans is concerning. It is clear that he is very motivated in what he wants to do," Badenhorst said.In his affidavit read out by his lawyer Motebang Ramaili, Ramosebudi said he had been living with his parents in the same house he was born in. He had a seven-year-old daughter. He intended pleading not guilty.He had no previous convictions or pending cases.Ramaili said he was unhappy that the Hawks tried to question Ramosebudi's parents about his mental health.Ramosebudi promised to stand trial and not to interfere with the investigation.His alleged targets were high-profile people with good security. No guns were found at his home.Ramaili argued that because his client had sent letters to the Guptas saying, "hands off Guptas", he would not try to kill them.&nbsp;24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.