The Bloemfontein High Court has sentenced three men to long term imprisonment, including a life sentence, for the cold-blooded murder of a taxi driver, Taole Masienyane (51). The accused are Mongezi Lipholo (36), Lebohang Mosia (31) and Tshwanelo Tatz (20), a Lesotho national. The court sentenced the trio after finding them guilty of robbery with aggravating circumstances and the murder of Masienyane in November 2015. Lipholo and Mosia received 18 years for murder and 10 years for robbery with aggravating circumstances. Tatz, from Lesotho, was sentenced to 15 years for robbery with aggravating circumstances and life impri sonment for murder. Capt. Thabo Litabe, Free State police spokesperson, said Mosia and Tatz showed no remorse throughout the murder trial, while Lipholo pleaded guilty to the killing of Masienyane. He said the sentences of Mosia and Lipholo will run concurrently. The court heard that the killers had handcuffed Masienyane and threw him alive into a dam near Koffiefontein. Litabe said the three accused had approached Masienyane and requested him to take them to Kelly s View in Bloemfontein upon meeting him at the Bloemfontein Tourism Centre. He said along the way to Kelly s View, the accused overpowered the deceased, handcuffed him and put him in the boot of his vehicle. Thereafter, they drove to Koffiefontein, the hometown of Lipholo, where they handcuffed Masienyane and threw him in a dam.Litabe said upon throwing the deceased into the dam, the accused drove off with the vehicle, which they attempted to sell for R30 000 to someone in Virginia. He said the killers were arrested before completing the transaction with the potential buyer. Following their arrest, Lipholo led the police to the dam where they had left Masienyane, said Litabe. Masienyane s body was found floating in the Riet River at around 20:00 on 28 November 2015. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.