The Van Breda murder trial continued at the Western Cape High Court for day 17 of the proceedings. Jump to bottom Dempers says he is trying to look at it logically, saying same assailant slashed people with an axe, there is no reason why would be fighting differently with Henri."I was told never to say never, but in this scenario, I find it very unlikely."Botha now has the axe in his hands, showing how Henri would have hit at the man's shoulder as the man was holding onto his arm. Dempers says this is not inconceivable.During struggle for life and death, Dempers says he finds it strange that Henri targeted the man's shoulder."The arm was there. It doesn't fit in with what is expected to happen in a fight or flight situation. "Botha now going to demonstrate on Adv Combrink.&nbsp;(Luckily using a ruler)Now referring to photo of Henri siting in the ambulance. Botha asks if the two cuts on either side of Henri's chest could be caused by one action. Dempers says it could be one action, but the smaller one on the left comes form the top and curves downward, the one of the left breast curves up, appears to come from a different direction.If there was a slash, its very difficult to impossible for them to be exactly the same depth or morphology. They have the same appearance, same depth, Dempers says. Likelihood is very, very rare.Dempers says person may be determined to make the defects.Botha says his adrenaline would have been affected. And after witnessing the attack, he would have felt the effects. Dempers says yes, it would have had a physiological reaction.Dempers noted in his report that there is a vast difference between Henri and his family's injuries. Botha says he isn't saying that the axe caused his injuries, but that some were caused by the knife. Botha says this could explain the injuries sustained by his family and Henri being so different.Knife lodged in pork for 2-3 secs. Dempers says pork skin significantly thicker than human skin; tissue not as pliable as human. #VanBredaProf Dempers experimented on piece of pork if knife could have gotten stuck in Henri #VanBreda's abdomen, as he claimed. Found it possible.He warmed the pork and expected a significant difference, but there was no discernible difference.Thought warmer tissue would show a difference. It didn't.Botha: Is it possible for someone to have caused it?Dempers: Yes, but victim would have to be standing still. The depth and characteristics of the cuts are not in keeping with an attack.I believe the scratches on arms and chest are likely more self inflicted, and the wound in abdomen may be too.For the back and head injuries, he can't say those are definitely self inflicted.I am assuming there was a scuffle. If I only look a the wounding, they are superficial, parallel; that is already suspicious. I look at the abdomen and the story; then look at the other injuries and the injuries sustained by the other family members.I look at the injuries and circumstances - look at wounds without history; then the defects with background of what is said to have happened; then look a the scene itself, their wounds.Then determine if it is potentially self inflicted.Are you of the view that all of the injuries documented are all consistent with self-inflicted injuries?&nbsp;Dempers says pathologists must have all the info at their disposal.&nbsp;It's not a thumb suck decisionGalloway says Dr Albertse had used an instrument to check the depth of the wound but stopped when Henri flinched. He says it is then hard to determine the depth of the wound. Jump to top