Mpho Raborife, News24 Acting police commissioner Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Acting national commissioner Lieutenant General
Khomotso Phahlane has described as “outrageous” reports that he instructed the National
Intervention Unit to raid the IPID’s offices. "We can categorically
state that there were no plans by the South African Police Service, on my
instructions or to my knowledge, to raid IPID's offices," he said in a
statement on Wednesday. Phahlane was responding to a
statement by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate, in which it said
it had learned “with shock” that police, on Phahlane’s
instructions, were planning to raid its national office. “The IPID has obtained reliable
information that the National Intervention Unit (NIU) was told to be on standby
for the raid,” spokesperson Moses Dlamini said. “If the information is true,
this is yet more evidence of a systematic campaign to try and derail the
investigation against General Phahlane, who is being investigated for various
allegations, including corruption, defeating the ends of justice and money
laundering.” ‘Propaganda’ Phahlane said the IPID was on a
“propaganda campaign” and trying to cast the police service in a bad light. He
said the IPID claimed to have “reliable information” about the planned raid, but had failed to say where the
information came from and why it had not yet been carried out. Phahlane said he was initially
reluctant to comment on the matter through the media because he considered it
“unethical and counterproductive” to do so. He respected the view of
Parliament’s police committee that the media not be used as a platform to
resolve such issues. Earlier, IPID had said it
believed the raid was a counter-attack to their ongoing investigation into
Phahlane. It brought an urgent
application in the High Court in Pretoria last Thursday, in a bid to
interdict police officers facing probes by IPID from investigating IPID
officials. This came after police charged
the two IPID officers investigating Phahlane for corruption and money
laundering, with crimes including fraud and extortion. IPID head Robert McBride said
in an affidavit that their case against Phahlane was at an advanced stage and
had been referred to the National Prosecuting Authority. Dlamini said IPID would not
stop its investigations as the allegations were serious and had merit. “The IPID will use all lawful
means to safeguard its independence and it is committed to investigating
without fear, favour or prejudice,” Dlamini said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  