KwaZulu-Natal Amphibian and Reptile Conservation (via Facebook) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Johannesburg - A selection of quotes from some of the stories that made news this week."When I stood next to her with the spade, I thought of holding back, but decided to go ahead and hit the deceased on the head with the spade as she lay sleeping." &ndash; A plea explanation by Pieter le Roux, as reported by Netwerk24, which was read out in the Circuit Court in Swellendam, describing how he killed his mother Francina van der Merwe after years of abuse."When I looked at her, she looked almost like a white plastic bag. I thought it was a garbage bag at first. When I looked again, I saw it was a body." -- Yvonne Elgar, a nurse who discovered the body of 16-year-old&nbsp;Franziska Bl&ouml;chliger in Tokai Forest on March 7 last year, testifying in the Western Cape High Court. "Genuine protests of our people gets infiltrated by criminals who use the opportunity to conduct themselves in criminal activity." &ndash; Police Minister Fikile Mbalula addressing SAPS and metro police officers during protests in Eldorado Park. "She said when she'd woken up, the snake was already right next to her bed." - Nick Evans of the KwaZulu-Natal Amphibian and Reptile Conservation organisation, quoted by&nbsp;Netwerk24, on his visit to a Westville, Durban, home on Saturday, where a woman woke up to see a black mamba peeking over the side of her bed."If there are those who think they can kick for touch and engage in delaying tactics - time is going to catch up." &ndash; Competition Commission spokesperson Sipho Ngwema, quoted by Bloomberg, on a probe into allegations that 14 banks colluded to manipulate trades in the rand."I am a politician, not a priest. So wherever I go, I talk politics. That is what people should expect." - Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi defending his comments about former president FW de Klerk, which he made at the funerals of 16 of the 18 children killed in a minibus taxi crash in Mpumalanga."There is nothing. Nothing. Nothing. Nothing." - Celeste Adonis, spokesperson for the family of three-year-old Courtney Pieters, who disappeared near her Elsie&rsquo;s River home last Thursday and is still missing."I feel like I want to murder the people that are around you at the moment and I am inches away from losing it with them and breaking down completely. But I am being strong to help you." &ndash; WhatsApp message read out in the Western Cape High Court, which Marli van Breda&rsquo;s boyfriend, James Reade-Jahn sent her 17 days before her parents and brother were murdered."Her unbridled arrogance is a betrayal of trust with the ANC - the organisation that deployed her as premier." &ndash; ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa reacting to Northern Cape premier Sylvia Lucas&rsquo;s decision to reshuffle her cabinet on the eve of the provincial ANC&rsquo;s elective conference."It was the decision of opticians who suggested that with the state of his age, with the state of the problem he was having visually, it was important that he gets advanced attention which is obtainable in Singapore." &ndash; President Robert Mugabe&rsquo;s aide George Charamba explaining to&nbsp;local&nbsp;CapiTalk radio station why he goes overseas for medical treatment."Nature can be so cruel and the dexterity these enormous animals are capable of is mind-blowing, almost surgical precision as they remove the liver of the white sharks and dump their carcass." &ndash; Alison Towner, a biologist with the Dyer Island Conservation Trust, quoted by traveller24, after orcas killed three great white sharks this month. Their carcasses washed up in Gansbaai, Franskraal, and Struisbaai."If they took their responsibilities seriously, they would never accept collective responsibility for corruption. It's wrong. It is wrong for us to protect one another when we have committed wrongs, we should not do that. That&rsquo;s why he&rsquo;s surviving. When they start to take the moral highway, he won&rsquo;t survive." &ndash; Former ANC treasurer Mathews Phosa on why Jacob Zuma is still president.24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.