Ashleigh Furlong, GroundUp Kgosi Mampuru II prison in Pretoria. (Supplied to GroundUp) Multimedia &nbsp; &nbsp; User Galleries &nbsp; &nbsp; News in Pictures Send us your pictures &nbsp; &nbsp; Send us your stories Ex-prisoners have been given an opportunity to start their new lives anew outside of prison with the help of the 'Lead Me As I Lead You Movement'. Watch. WATCHPretoria - The Tshwane prisoner who successfully took Correctional Services to court for failing to consider a fellow inmate's application for medical parole has had his study materials taken away from him at Kgosi Mampuru II prison in Pretoria.On 9 May GroundUp published an article that described Piet Kgwatedi Mokwena's battle to have Mike Phahlamohlaka, who has a brain tumour, considered for medical parole.Following this, officials searched Mokwena's cell and confiscated his computer, USB, all his legal documents, his cellphone and his modem, GroundUp reported. Neither the cellphone nor the modem is allowed in prison, but Mokwena has been authorised to use his personal computer.He is currently studying toward an LLB with Unisa and has exams coming up this month. He also needs to submit portfolios for two of his courses. The information that he needs for this is on his computer.Mokwena told his lawyer Clare Ballard from Lawyers for Human Rights that once the items were found, he was charged and a disciplinary hearing was conducted. He pleaded guilty to having a modem and a cellphone and was sanctioned to 30 days without visitation.Minimum rightsMokwena told Ballard that the sanction doesn't include the revocation of the authorisation for him to access his personal computer.After attempting to get the computer back from the head of Security, Mokwena told Ballard that the head of Security said that he is a prisoner and not a lawyer and was not allowed to represent other offenders in court.The head of Security also allegedly said that he had revoked Mokwena's authorisation to possess the computer, USB stick and bundle of documents.Mokwena believes that the head of Security's actions are illegal as the Correctional Services Act prevents officials from violating the minimum rights of offenders which include access to reading material.He also said that being sanctioned to 30 days without visits is not a prescribed provision in the Correctional Services Act.Three inmates at Kgosi Mapuru II have previously won their case against Correctional Services, where they argued that they should be allowed to use laptops in their cells as they were studying.Lawyers for Human Rights will be representing Mokwena in the application for review of the matter.Correctional Services had not responded to comment by 12:00 on May 15. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.