Amanda Khoza ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The African National Congress has called of its scheduled post-national executive committee meeting press briefing on Monday because national leaders are involved in various "engagements" around the country. ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said alternative arrangements to communicate the decisions of the meeting would be announced in due course. Among other things, the NEC was meant to brief the media on a way forward for the troubled KwaZulu-Natal province. The KwaZulu-Natal ANC had taken a decision to appeal a KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Pietermaritzburg ruling that nullified the 2015 provincial conference, which saw Sihle Zikalala become chairperson. READ: It was a 'festival of chairs' - Ramaphosa on violent ANC elective conference The NEC meeting was going to deal with KwaZulu-Natal specifically, ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe had told journalists on Friday. Other provinces have also experienced conflict in the run-up to the national elective conference in December. Violence broke out at the Eastern Cape elective conference, where Oscar Mabuyane was elected the provincial chair on Sunday. A total of eight delegates were injured when delegates threw chairs at one another during a brawl. On Friday night, some delegates disrupted the conference and on Saturday night, those who attempted to enter the venue were dispersed with stun grenades. READ: Oscar Mabuyane elected ANC Eastern Cape chair On Monday, the Eastern Cape High Court sitting in East London struck off the roll an application to interdict the already completed ANC provincial conference. In the Northern Cape, disgruntled ANC members have threatened legal action to nullify the provincial elective conference which took place in May. Delegates also want to halt the province's regional conferences, which are scheduled for November this year.   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  