Iavan Pijoos A bakkie emblazoned with an anti-farm murder slogan. (James de Villiers, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - The #BlackMonday campaign, held to protest the recent spate of murders of farmers, had characteristics of racism, the Economic Freedom Fighters said on Tuesday. "These marches proudly promoted anti-black racism by a tiny white minority, which seeks to gain public sympathy, using apartheid symbols, like the apartheid government flag," national spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said. Ndlozi said the marches were orchestrated to reflect that white farmers were being killed by black people. "This fear, unfortunately, is part of the persistent colonial settler collective guilt of thinking one day black people will punish whites for their apartheid and colonial crimes. As a result, they withdraw into an apartheid memory with its deep wishes for a whites-only society in Africa." READ: Cape Town organiser says there were no apartheid flags at #BlackMonday protest  On Monday morning, farmers used their trucks, vehicles and tractors to block off freeways during the #BlackMonday protest, which was held in an effort to highlight the number of farm attacks and murders across the country. Some were seen displaying the old South African flag. Ndlozi said there were no political formations, even during the years of the struggle, which were ever premised on revenge. "The black political leadership, from different ideological poles has always mobilised black people by elevating their humanness above revenge." He referred to Marikina mine workers, families of patients killed in Life Esidimeni and femicide victims, saying that none of them called for crimes against humanity in order to resolve their plights. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  