Frank Chikowore, Correspondent  Emmerson Mnangagwa. (File: AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare
– Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's deputy, Emmerson Mnangagwa, has reportedly
opened up for the first time on his food poisoning scare, saying, however, that
he was recovering.  Mnangagwa
was flown to South Africa for medical attention after he started vomiting and
having diarrhea while attending a presidential youth interface rally held in
Gwanda in August.  Speaking
at one of his allies’ memorial service in Masvingo over the weekend, the vice president was quoted by NewsDay as saying that he
was indeed poisoned but would not divulge further details.  "I
have come to tell you that what happened to Mai (Shuvai) Mahofa in Victoria
Falls is what also happened to me. I am making tremendous recovery. Those who
wished me dead will be ashamed because when God’s time for one to die is not
up, he will not die. I still have many years to live and the truth will come
out," Mnangagwa was cited as saying.  Mahofa,
who died months ago, was the provincial affairs minister for Masvingo and a key
Mnangagwa ally. She was allegedly poisoned at a Zanu-PF annual conference in
the resort town of Victoria Falls. 'Masvingo is the best province' Mnangagwa’s
loyalists accused his "Generation 40" rivals within the ruling Zanu-PF party of
poisoning him in a bid to physically eliminate him from the race to succeed
Mugabe, 93.  Last
month, Mnangagwa issued a statement denying reports that he had eaten ice-cream
from the Mugabe-owned Gushungo Dairies when he fell sick at the Gwanda rally
but did not say anything at the time regarding his alleged poisoning. Mnangagwa,
who reportedly leads a faction calling itself "Team Lacoste", is battling against
Generation 40 to take over power from Mugabe when the nonagenarian eventually
leaves office.  Mnangagwa
reportedly used Mahofa’s memorial service to respond for the first time to the
barrage of public attacks on him by his rivals.   "If
you try to catch a fish by putting a snare on a rock outside water, you will
realise that you won't catch it," said the embattled vice president who also
appeared to be supporting the ruling party Masvingo and Midlands provincial
structures that the First Lady said were riddled with factionalism.   "Masvingo
is the best province, whatever anyone says. Those who castigate the province
don’t know what the future holds and when things come to a head, we will try to
see where each one of us stands. Zvese zviri kutaugwa zvichapera kana nyaya
yaakusvika kumagumo (everything being said and happening now will soon be
over)," said Mnangagwa. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  