Jan Bornman 10111 call centre workers belonging to the South African Police Union (SAPU) protest, calling for SAPS to increase their salary level by two notches, an estimated increase of R50 000 per annum. (Jaco Marais, Gallo Images, Die Burger, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - National police management has reaffirmed its stance that striking 10111 employees would face disciplinary action after failing to return to work following a nationwide directive issued last week. The 10111 call centre workers had been on strike since July this year after demanding salary increases. Police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said police management had instructed call centre commanders to take disciplinary steps against employees who chose not to comply with the directive issued on September 28, instructing employees to return to work the following day. READ: Our families are suffering - striking 10111 workers "While the majority of these employees have returned to work, some have not and the necessary disciplinary action is being instituted against those members that have chosen not to return to work," Naidoo said. Naidoo said an agreement was signed by the Safety and Security Sectoral Bargaining Council (SSSBC) and the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru), which is the majority union in the council. He said the South African Police Union (SAPU) which initially called the strike, was not a signatory to the agreement, and therefore the strike was "unprotected". "SAPU has been made aware of the agreement and that they can no longer claim protection of a protected strike. Unfortunately, the strike action continued and all the striking employees were called upon to immediately cease such action and return to duty no later than 29 September 2017 or face disciplinary action," Naidoo said. READ: Police to lodge interdict against picketing 10111 employees to 'prevent unlawful conduct' On Monday, News24 reported that the SAPS had to deploy police officers to the 10111 call centres, while the striking call centre workers and their families were struggling. "My family is experiencing this trauma, the kids, the transportation, the lunchbox money. We are feeling the pressure," said Zoleka Hlatshwayo, one of the striking call centre workers told News24. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  