French President Emmanuel Macron. (Philippe Wojazer, AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Paris - Illegal immigrants who commit crimes in France will face deportation, President Emmanuel Macron said on Sunday, in an interview in which he also confirmed disgraced Hollywood movie mogul Harvey Weinstein will be stripped of the prestigious Legion d'Honneur. In the wide-ranging interview, only the sixth Macron has given at home or abroad since his election in May, he said that even without new legislation "we can take tougher measures" and expel illegal immigrants if they commit a crime, "whatever it may be". He was speaking after it emerged that a Tunisian man who stabbed two women to death in the southern city of Marseille on October 1 had been arrested two days earlier for shoplifting in eastern Lyon.  Ahmed Hanachi, a 29-year-old whose papers were not in order, had been allowed to walk free the day before he attacked the women. Hanachi was known to the police for drug as well as alcohol problems and had a history of petty crime, using seven aliases. "We are not taking all the steps that should be taken. Well, that's going to change," Macron told three journalists who interviewed him for more than an hour at the Elysee Palace. Trump, Iran Macron also discussed the crisis sparked when US President Donald Trump said on Friday that he refused to "certify" the Iran nuclear deal and warned he would "terminate" it unless Congress introduces tough new sanctions against Tehran. Macron said he would travel to Iran "at the appropriate time". The French leader spoke to his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani after Trump's virulent speech, telling him that Paris remained committed to the 2015 nuclear agreement which, besides the United States, was also negotiated with Britain, France, China, Russia and Germany.  Trump "wants to get tough with Iran... I told him it was a bad approach in my view". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  