Magazine Features PHOTO: Magazine Features Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A student enrolled
in the world’s first degree course in the study of marijuana signed up after
his mother told him about it. Northern Michigan University in the US began its medical plant chemistry
programme this year and now has a dozen students on board. Student Alex Roth, from Michigan, signed up after his mom said it sounded like
a perfect fit for him. The 19-year-old said his interest in the course is twofold – from a medical
perspective, but as also a growing business opportunity. “I heard about the programme through my mom. She sent me an article about it.
She’s really supportive of the course and sees it as a great opportunity in a
growing market. I’d been thinking about switching my major to something that would offer the
best career opportunities. “This is something that’s so cutting edge. I think it’s really cool,” the first-year
student said. Alex added that he has two reasons for wanting to study the herbal drug – one being
to help a family friend who suffers from gene mutation and needs cannabidiol (CBD) oil to help with her seizures; and the
other to tap into a market that’s growing at a rate that’s faster than the one
for alcohol. “We had
prohibition here in America. That’s where we’re at with marijuana right now,
really,” he explained. “Everything’s changing and I want to be on the forefront of that as marijuana
comes into the mainstream. “There are 12 people on the course. Everyone’s on it for the same reasons as
me.”  In the next
semester the students will learn how to grow the drug, which is still illegal
in many places, and Alex said he can’t wait to learn about that. “We’ll look at the chemical makeup and the soils we should use and growing
certain types,” he said. “I have smoked recreationally. This is all about learning about the chemistry
behind it.” The four-year
degree course is believed to be unique because it offers a look into both the science
and business of growing marijuana. Northern Michigan University commented, “Increasing legitimacy and legality of
medicinal plants nationwide has created great demand for qualified technical
personnel and great opportunity for the skilled entrepreneur in the cannabis,
herbal extract, and natural product industries. “Medicinal
Plant Chemistry at Northern Michigan University is the only four-year
undergraduate degree programme of its kind designed to prepare students for
success in the emerging industries relating to medicinal plant production,
analysis and distribution.” SOURCE: Magazine features 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  