Iavan Pijoos and Caryn Dolley Cape Town - The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is probing the circumstances surrounding the death of a 9-year-old boy who was allegedly hit in the face by a stun grenade in Kraaifontein, outside Cape Town.  IPID spokesperson Moses Dlamini confirmed to News24 on Thursday that the boy had died on Monday.  "We are trying to determine whether he was killed by a stun grenade, or if it was something else. It is going to [form] part of our investigation," Dlamini said. "We are also trying to establish whether the death was caused by the police and, if it [was] caused by the police, then it is a matter that IPID will investigate." Watch here: A graphic and disturbing video obtained by News24, which was apparently filmed shortly after the incident, shows a young boy lying next to a pavement in a pool of blood.  The boy is covered with a blanket, surrounded by a crowd of shocked people.  Children can be heard talking in the background. Blood flows from the left side of his face, while a woman and man plead to God to save the boy's life.  Several police officers are also present.  Hit in face with stun grenade The woman and a man hold hands and kneel next to the boy, pleading with God to save his life. "Praat met die Here, my kind, my kind, pleit vir die Here. Pleit vir die Here, (Talk to God my child. My child, plead to God, plead to God)," the woman is heard saying, while softly stroking his body.  It is unclear if they are the boy's parents. The sobbing woman is comforted by residents, while she continues to pray over the boy.  "Dankie Jesus (Thank you Jesus)," the man says.  According to sources with knowledge of the incident, the boy was hit in the face by a stun grenade.  It was not immediately clear why police officers had been in the area at the time.  On Wednesday, Western Cape police referred News24 to IPID for comment on the incident.  According to the sources, News24 understands that residents had thrown stones at the police, who then retaliated. It was not clear what sparked the conflict. "We saw the video, but it only shows the boy lying on the ground covered with a blanket. It doesn't show the actual shooting," Dlamini said. The circumstances leading up to how the boy was injured formed part of the investigation, Dlamini said. News24 is attempting to contact the family.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  