Angelique Serrao (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Forensic investigator Paul O’Sullivan has offered a R100 000 reward for information that will lead to the arrest and conviction of anyone involved in the recent killings of Association of Construction and Mineworkers Union (AMCU) members.  In September, AMCU decided to appoint O’Sullivan to investigate the murders and to make available R100 000 as a reward for information.  O’Sullivan told News24 that Malibongwe Mdazo, who was shot numerous times in July 2017, was lucky to have escaped with a few gunshot wounds.  Mdazo, chairman of AMCU at the Western Platinum mine, was shot on July 22 after he attended a soccer match.  When he climbed into his car, he heard gunshots and got out again.  He saw a man he knew holding a gun, who shot him numerous times in the arm, the chest, stomach and leg. READ: Did killed mine worker strike a deal with state? Mdazo fled and hid in a nearby house. He was later taken by helicopter to the Milpark Hospital, where he underwent surgery.  Nkosinathi Mantashe was recently arrested for the shooting and appeared in the Brits Magistrate’s Court. Mantashe, who is a member the National Union of Mineworkers, has maintained his innocence and claims he did not own a firearm. "I don't know anything about the offence... I don't know the accused," he told the court. Mantashe, 37, worked at Lonmin for 16 years. He is currently the mineral resources officer. He faces charges of attempted murder and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm.  The State was opposing bail in the matter. AMCU president Joseph Mathunjwa said police have been tardy in investigating the killings that took place in the area and in making arrests. READ: Mathunjwa likens impunity of Marikana killings to Glebelands murders  Police arrested three people in connection with the murders last week.  O’Sullivan said he believed it was clear the shooting was a hit on the leadership of AMCU and they have asked the police to centralise all the dockets.  He said that they believed there was a hidden hand in the shooting and added that they were determined to get to the bottom of it.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  