
        Heavy rain, flooding and strong winds have wrecked havoc over KwaZulu-Natal, with reports of at least five deaths.
     Follow our News24 reporters on the scene for the latest updates:   - Kaveel Singh: @kaveels   - Mxolisi Mngadi: @EmExDurban   
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 The particular weather system causing the heavy rain over much of KwaZulu-Natal, including Durban has nothing in common with hurricane systems, says South African Weather Service chief forecaster Kevin Rae.  The rain over KwaZulu-Natal is being caused by an upper air cut-off low, characterised by a cool/cold core. These systems originate in the mid-latitudes, well away from tropical areas. Thunderstorm season is starting in SA South Africa is in its thunderstorm period now, which is an annual occurrence, according to weather forecaster Dipuo Tawana. "We had heavy rainfall that occurred in Kempton Park last year, about 81mm in that vicinity... It is nothing out of the ordinary," she told HuffPost SA. "From September 1, meteorologically our thunderstorm season is starting, so we are going to have storms," she added. She explained, however, that not all thunderstorms would be severe and urged the public to stay informed about weather conditions. NSRI Durban, NSRI Shelly
Beach and NSRI Port Edward and emergency services are fully deployed assisting
at floods in and around the Kwa-Zulu Natal North and South coasts, says Craig Lambinon from the NSRI. NSRI Durban dispatched their sea rescue vehicle and rescue swimmers fully
kitted in wet suits.

NSRI Port Edward dispatched their sea rescue vehicle and Discovery Rescue
Runner to the Umtamvuna River.

NSRI Shelly Beach are on high alert to assist police search and rescue efforts.  Cars swept away by heavy rains in Durban Heavy rains and strong winds are causing mayhem on the roads as Durban motorists battle against a massive storm.  The eThekwini Municipality has urged residents to stay indoors. Toyota SA: Prospecton plant damaged by #DurbanStorm The massive storm sweeping through KwaZulu-Natal has caused damaged to Toyota's motor manufacturing plant in Prospecton, South of Durban.  A statement sent by Clynton Yon, senior manager of corporate communications for Toyota SA, said "unprecedented flooding has impacted" the plant where the automaker manufactures the Corolla, Corolla Quest, Hilux, Fortuner and Quantum as well as assembles selected Hino product.   Today the Emergency Services have been kept very busy with a
severe storm in the Durban area.

In one of the numerous callouts this morning, Netcare 911
and the Fire Department responded to reports that a large shipping container
had blown onto the roof of a car outside the Durban harbour.

 

 Reports from the scene allege that during the storm a forty
foot container which was stacked on top of other containers was blown over and
landed on the car. The incident and preceding events will form part of a police
investigation. 

 

 Paramedics attended to the two occupants of the car. The
first man, who was approximately thirty years old, had sustained relatively
minor injuries but was trapped inside the car when the roof collapsed under the
weight of the container. He was in a stable condition and was transported by
ambulance to hospital for further assessment and care. Tragically the second
occupant, believed to be in his forties, had sustained severe injuries and died
at the scene.

 

 To access the victims, the container first had to be removed
from the vehicle and then fire fighters and rescue personnel used the "Jaws
of Life" to free them from the wreck.

 

 The SAPS were also at the scene.

 

 Several other large and heavy stacked containers in
different areas were also blown over by the strong winds.

Many roads are under water and motorists are urged to take
extra care and not to used flooded roads as their vehicles may breakdown in the
water leaving them stranded.

 Computer Labs Flooded in Some Parts of Durban #DurbanStorm pic.twitter.com/2ttdyFLqvX 
                Jump to
                top
            