Pam Magwaza PHOTO: Supplied by Jimmy Motswatswa Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories   When Jimmy Motswatswa woke up last Monday morning, he had no idea he would be instrumental in bringing a life into the world that day. But when a young woman needed help, he came to her – and her unborn child’s – rescue. The 40-year-old security guard from Roodeport became a hero last week when he rushed to the aid of a school in labour while on her way to school. “I am a security guard at Caprivi Complex so I am always stationed at my post,” Jimmy told YOU. “As usual a Toyota Avanza that transports school kids to school was doing its rounds when it suddenly stopped. “The driver of the Avanza ran out of the van and called out for help. He said that a girl was in pain and needed help immediately.” Without hesitation Jimmy bolted towards the car and flung open the door. Inside was a girl who he says couldn’t be more than 13 or 14 – and she was clearly in excruciating pain. “I couldn’t see that the girl was pregnant at first because she was crouching down, but she was screaming out. “I told her that I will go and get her some water but then she turned around laid on her back and lifted her knees up.” “This was when I saw that she was pregnant and that the baby was coming right there and then,” he recalled. “She screamed ‘the baby is coming’ and at this I was very shocked and confused.” Traumatised, Jimmy didn’t know what to do at first. But then he began thinking back to when his wife gave birth to their children, and what the doctors and nurses in the hospital had done. “She screamed and pushed and the next minute the baby was out,” explained Jimmy. “I immediately wrapped the baby in my jacket so that it would not get cold just as I saw being done at the hospital when my wife gave birth.” “I was so happy when the baby girl was out.” But joy soon turned to panic when Jimmy realised that he did not know what else to do for the baby. He knew the umbilical cord needed to be cut and the baby would need medical attention he couldn’t provide. “I ran back to the complex to ask for help. Luckily a resident was coming out of the gate and she happened to be a nurse. “I told her what had happened and she immediately came to help us and called an ambulance.” The driver of the car had already called the girl’s parents. Apparently they had not known that their daughter was pregnant and were very upset. “It was very bad for me to hear that the parents did not know that their daughter was pregnant but I was so happy that I could help her and save their daughter’s life.” “I called the baby girl Caprivi because that is where she was born,” said Jimmy happily. The school girl was then taken to the hospital and Jimmy never got the chance to meet her parents or to hear what she eventually named her daughter. “I would love to meet her parents one day and see how their granddaughter is doing now. Hopefully that will happen.” The CEO of EC Security, Eugene Coetzee, told YOU that he was so proud of Jimmy's willingness to get involved in such a serious situation. "As a business we take great care in appointing staff that embody our sincere commitment to the safety and well-being of all individuals living in, or passing through the West Rand, both clients and non-clients," "Jimmy is a shining example of this and has proven his character through the relationships developed over time with the residents of the Caprivi Residential Complex," "We are also very happy that the outcome for mom and baby was positive." Said Coetzee.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  