
  THE Community Services Committee has recommended that a new clinic be constructed in Cornubia Phase 1 near Verulam before the end of 2019. Chairperson of the Community Services Committee councillor Zama Sokhabase said because Cornubia is a new neighbourhood, residents are remote from public services. “These services are not yet integrated, which means access to the nearest services is expensive and time consuming. There is an urgent need to roll out health and education facilities. Currently, this community is being serviced fortnightly by the mobile clinic from Verulam. We have mandated the Health Unit to do everything in its powers to make sure that the clinic does become a reality.” Health Unit deputy head Zinhle Buthelezi echoed councillor Sokhabase’s sentiments, saying her unit is currently providing minimal services to Cornubia residents from the mobile clinic. “The cost of the new clinic structure will be R12 million staggered over a period of three years and the clinic is expected to be up and running before the end of 2019." To reduce long waiting periods in municipal pharmacies and dispensaries, the committee has approved the additional funding for 40 pharmacy assistant  posts in the health unit.  Sokhabase said the health unit is operating with a mixture of full time municipal staff and contract staff from a local healthcare non-government organisation (NGO). “This particular NGO has informed us that it will no longer be able to continue funding the contracted staff due to financial limitations.    “We therefore, cannot have a situation where facilities that were supported by the NGO staff operating without pharmacy assistants. This will interrupt service delivery. We are required by law to provide efficient and safe pharmaceutical support service to clinics." Health Unit deputy head Zinhle Buthelezi said the unit is currently receiving funding through an agreement between the provincial Department of  Health and the municipality. “The cost to fund the 40 posts will be reimbursed by the province. We spend over R 250 million annually on pharmaceutical supplies.    “The patient volume has increased to over three million, and that is why it is critical that these posts are filled to sustain and improve services rendered by pharmacists and pharmacy assistants.” - Supplied. 
    
  
       24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  