Academics protest on the steps of Wits University in support of the students who embarked on last year’s #FeesMustFall campaign. Picture: Leon Sadiki 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     If you missed the news and analysis from Sunday’s City Press, we’ve put together some of the highlights for you. EXCLUSIVE: Fees won't fall  Universal free tertiary education will not be feasible in the foreseeable future, and different funding models should be adopted to ensure access for all deserving students, according to the Heher commission’s recommendations.  The long-awaited 748-page report by the commission of inquiry into higher education and training – which City Press has in its possession – has instead suggested a multipronged and multilayered approach which will take into account South Africa’s struggling economy and competing demands on the fiscus. Full story here  Gigaba says no to nuclear  Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba says drastic steps are needed to help South Africa’s ailing economy – including freezing senior civil servants’ salaries and selling chunks of state-owned enterprises. In an exclusive interview with City Press on Friday, Gigaba unveiled the surprise moves, which include slamming brakes on the country’s estimated R1 trillion nuclear build programme, saying it is neither affordable nor currently necessary. Full story here  Political parties misuse Parliament funds  Parliament has deducted funds from half the political parties represented in the legislature, after they used their allowances for unauthorised expenses.  Six parties failed to either fully account for previous allowances or breached Parliament’s policy by spending irregularly.As a result, the national legislature withheld just over R1.1m which was meant to have been transferred to the parties in June. Full story here  Sexual abuse rife in SA film and TV industry An actress “accidentally” having her breast fondled by a sound guy attaching her microphone. A line producer kept late at work – because the producer wants to “get to know her better” and if she wants to keep her job she better play along.  These are some of the real-life stories that are being dramatised and turned into public service announcement videos for a campaign called #ThatsNotOkay by a vocal group of South African women called Sisters Working in Film and Television (Swift) that launched officially in July this year. Full story here 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  