Death toll from Kenya poll violence rises to three: hospital, police Nairobi - At least three people were shot dead on Thursday as opposition protests sparked violence during Kenya's presidential re-run, according to police and hospital sources. One man was killed in Nairobi's Mathare slum, one of the hotspots where protesters tried to block the vote which has been boycotted by opposition leader Raila Odinga, prompting clashes with police. "I have just confirmed he was shot in the forehead," said Drugnet hospital director Dickens Osimba. An AFP photographer also saw the body. Read more on this story here Polls open in Kenyan election, boycotted by opposition Nairobi - Polls opened on Thursday in a repeat presidential election in Kenya that is mired in uncertainty as opposition leader Raila Odinga has called on his supporters to boycott the vote. "It is my duty to vote. Last time the queue was all around the block and I waited six hours to vote, this time the people are few," said taxi driver David Njeru, 26, as he waited to vote in Nairobi's Mathare slum. In Odinga's western stronghold of Kisumu, several polling stations remained closed in stark contrast to the scenes during the first election on August 8, when people lined up overnight to vote. For more on this story click here  At least 10 killed in Ethiopia protests, residents say Addis Ababa - Witnesses in Ethiopia say at least 10 people are dead after security forces fired on angry protesters in the restive Oromia region. One resident says the killings occurred around midday on Thursday in the town of Ambo. Another resident says gunshots could be heard since morning. The residents spoke on condition of anonymity because of fear of retaliation. The town has seen multiple demonstrations since anti-government protests erupted in Ethiopia in 2015 and caused a months-long state of emergency that was lifted earlier this year. For more on this story click here  French army kills 15 Mali jihadists Paris - The French army said on Thursday it had eliminated an "armed terrorist group" linked to Al-Qaeda in northern Mali, killing 15 jihadists. Army spokesperson Patrick Steiger said troops from France's regional Barkhane anti-terror operation had carried out a joint strike against the group with French special forces about 100km northeast of Kidal. The operation, which was backed by fighter jets and helicopters, took place overnight on Monday. Read more on this story here  PICS: Kenyan police, protesters clash during repeat election Nairobi - Kenyan police on Thursday fired tear gas at stone-throwing protesters in some opposition areas during the second presidential election since August, reflecting bitter divisions in a country whose main opposition leader urged his followers to boycott the vote. Violence erupted in Nairobi's Kibera slum and Kisumu, a major city in the west where protesters set fires and blocked roads, and many polling stations didn't open because of security concerns. One Kisumu primary school that saw huge lines of voters when it served as a polling station in the August 8 election was closed this time around, its gates locked. Read more on this story here Uganda opposition leader arrested again: party Kampala - Uganda's opposition leader Kizza Besigye was arrested again Wednesday just five hours after being charged with inciting violence and released on bail, a leader of his political party told AFP. "He was released today (Wednesday) but was rearrested thereafter. We don't know why," said Harold Kaija, an official of the Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) party. "His release was a cosmetic one," Kaija added. "Government is trying to bypass the long stay in detention by Besigye by rearresting him after he was set free by the court." Read more on this story here         24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  