'WHO is the biggest loser,' says Zim govt following decision to revoke Mugabe's appointment Harare – The Zimbabwean government has reportedly said that the World Health Organisation (WHO) was the "biggest loser" following its decision to revoke the appointment of President Robert Mugabe as its Goodwill Ambassador for Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) in Africa. Mugabe, 93, was in Uruguay last week where the WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesushe announced his goodwill ambassador role. The nonagenarian's appointment was, however, met with shock and condemnation by health officials and countries, including the United States, which sanctioned Mugabe more than a decade ago over his government's human rights abuses.   For more on this story click here  Maternal deaths prompt calls for action in Zambia Lusaka - The birthday of twins Karen and Kelly Junior will always be tinged by sadness as it also marks the day their mother died in childbirth - a tragic occurrence of increasing public debate in Zambia. Their mother, Karen Kalengele, 33, was admitted to the Medcross hospital in Lusaka, one of the country's most prestigious private medical facilities, on March 18 to give birth. Her labour was slow and, as she was expecting twins, doctors chose to perform a Caesarean section. Read more on this story here  Zanu-PF special congress 'not aimed at firing VP Mnangagwa', said Mugabe aide Harare – Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party has maintained that its special congress to be held in December will not be used to fire President Robert Mugabe's lieutenants. According to the state-owned Sunday News, Zanu-PF National Secretary for Administration Ignatius Chombo said that contrary to claims by the private media that the congress would be used to dismiss Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, Mugabe had made it clear that focus would be on polls. In an unusual development, Zanu-PF was set to hold a special congress in December ahead of the 2018 elections. For more on this story click here 'I'm paying close attention to Kenya,' says Pope as he calls for 'constructive dialogue' Vatican City - Pope Francis on Sunday called for constructive dialogue in Kenya where he said he was following the situation with "close attention" over disputed elections. "I am paying close attention in these days to Kenya, which I visited in 2015," Francis told pilgrims and tourists gathered for the Angelus prayer. Francis said he was praying "that the whole country might be able to face the current difficulties in a climate of constructive dialogue, having at heart the search for the common good." Read more on this story here  Three female suicide bombers kill at least 13 in Nigerian city Maiduguri - Three female suicide bombers killed 13 people and wounded 16 in the northeastern city of Maiduguri on Sunday, security sources said. The first bomber detonated her explosive belt around 21:45 in front of a small restaurant in the capital of Borno state "when people were buying their dinner," a military source said on condition of anonymity, giving the death toll. The two other bombers followed minutes later, resulting in the injured, an armed militia leader said, noting that the attack came "hours after reports of sighting of a lot of Boko Haram members outside the city." For more on this story click here  Raila Odinga says he will not recognise Kenyatta win Nairobi, Kenya - Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga says he will not recognise a win by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday's scheduled election re-run, as a political crisis gripping the East African country shows no sign of ending. Odinga pulled out of the race earlier this month after claiming opposition demands to overhaul the country's election body had not been met. "As far as we are concerned, this is not an election," Odinga told the Nation newspaper on Sunday. For more on this story click here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  