Chester Makana, Correspondent Rameez Patel in court for the murder of his wife, Fatima. (File, Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Polokwane - The modus operandi in the murder of prominent Limpopo businessman Rameez Patel's wife, Fatima and that of his mother, Mohajeen Banu Patel were similar, the Polokwane Magistrate's court heard on Wednesday. Patel is presently on trial for the murder of his wife but was later also arrested for the murder of his mother. He was out on R250 000 bail when he was arrested for the second murder. He appeared on Wednesday for a bail application in the murder case related to his mother. Fatima was murdered in 2015 and his mother was killed in September this year. ALSO READ: Trail of death: The spine-chilling case of Rameez Patel It is the State's case that the modus operandi in both murders was similar, with State Prosecutor Mashudu Mudau alleging that the accused had a tendency of removing his children from the care of both deceased, moments before the murders. Mudau put it to Patel, who took the stand, that based on evidence in the trial relating to Fatima, he had removed his children from Fatima's care hours before she was found dead. Mudau said the same had transpired with the murder of his mother. "In less than three minutes after you left the house, your mother was shot and killed," Mudau said, adding that it was their case that he had hired a hitman. Patel, however, shot down the allegations, saying he was only made aware of his mother's death through a family helper. “We have two witnesses you told that you are going to kill your mother,” Mudau told Patel during cross-examination. Sour relations He put it to Patel that his mother wanted to gain control of the family's lucrative business, of which she was the owner after the death of her husband. But Patel insisted he had no reason to kill her. Instead, he painted his younger brother Razeem as a violent person who repeatedly abused his slain mother. Asked about his relationship with his sibling, Patel said other than being brothers, their relations had soured allegedly as a result of his brother's behaviour. It is Patel's case that he should be released on bail to tend to the business and his children. Another witness who was called to testify was his girlfriend Nasrien Mayet who is alleged to have been having an affair with Patel while Fatima was alive. Mayet was also married at the time. Despite Mayet's attempt to portray Patel in a positive light, the State produced a recording of a telephone conversation where she could be heard referring to Patel as a "psychopath". In response, Mayet alleged her ex-husband had forced her to make the statement. He had apparently found out about the relationship between Mayet and Patel. The case continues on Thursday.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  