Boipelo Mere Assurance is given by the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) regarding fake notifications that instruct users to take new bank cards and Sassa cards. This follows various concerns raised by social grant beneficiaries that their Sassa cards will expire in December.  According to a statement released by Paseka Letsatsi, Sassa spokesperson, the existing social grant card (the card with the colours of the South African flag and the Coat of Arms) is the only Sassa payment card and will continue to work even beyond the expiry date printed on the card. “No beneficiary should therefore be coerced into taking a new card. Sassa only issues one card and does not endorse or support any other bank cards,” says Letsatsi. Sassa set the record straight regarding recent media reports about illegal deductions, as well as the expiry of the cards.  “The payment card operates like most bank cards and social grant beneficiaries are able to enter into debit order agreements for products or services and have payments effected from their accounts.”  The statement elaborated on how many services, such as the marketing of prepaid airtime, prepaid electricity and loans, are targeted directly at social grant beneficiaries, with the repayments coming off their accounts. “The challenge faced by Sassa is that in some cases, the financial products are sold to social grant beneficiaries without them understanding the full implications of what they are agreeing to,” the statement read.  “When the grant is paid, the loan repayments for products like prepaid airtime come off before the beneficiary can access the grant. When this happens, the beneficiary complains to Sassa.” The Sassa payment card operates like most bank cards and social grant beneficiaries are able to enter into debit order agreements for products or services, and have payments effected from their accounts. “ 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  