
        In the ongoing trial of Christopher Panayiotou, his mistress Chanelle Coutts has taken to the stand in his defence and alleged she was subjected to mistreatment during questioning, which can be proven by recordings.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                  - COURT IS ADJOURNED -  Court will resume at 14:15.  MS: You spoke to...about the wiping of the phones  CC: As I have explained, I was at Kapp's house, it was her birthday.  CC: Kapp told me that a friend of hers, who was a teacher, had told her there were rumours that Chris was having an affair  CC: No names were mentioned, but I decided to delete the photos of Chris on my phone and asked her to do the same  MS: And after that, you had the phone wiped?  CC: After I went to the OK Grocer, where I met with Donovan Vosloo, who then deleted the content on the phone.  CC: When I got the phone back, it just had my contacts on it  MS: And CP's phone a similar situation?  CC: Yes  MS: And why?  CC: We had already agreed that we would be honest about the affair, but did not want the content of our conversations to be public.  MS: So you wanted to hide that from the police?  CC: The police and our families  [MS asks for an adjournment to 14:00]  [MS says he needs to digitise certain items before he continues]   MS: And that this was in fact for a sponsorship to the SAPS golf team?  CC: That is correct  MS: And that a certificate of appreciation was given?  CC: I am not aware of that  MS: Were you aware of a - for lack of a better word - business entity in Grahamstown?  CC: I was aware  MS: Do you know what it was?  CC: My understanding was it was an internet cafe  MS: And do you know what the financial situation was?  CC: No   MS: I put it to you that that money was not for your 10 years service, as it would then reflect in the books of either OK or Infinity  CC: That is Mr Stander's opinion, my lord  MS: Do you know the drug called Mandy?  CC: No  MS: It is a drug very similar to cocaine  MS: Do you know that you were possibly asked that you used Mandy and not cocaine?  CC: It is possible  TP: What statement is this that Mr Stander refers to?  [MS refers to the affidavit]  MS: Perhaps I should rephrase...  MS: Were you aware of the purpose of the items being collected by Mr Eksteen  CC: Yes   MS: I have a few questions and then I am going to ask if we can stand down until after 2  MS: Do I understand you correctly that you have insights into the financial affairs of OK Grocer?  CC: Yes  MS: Does the R17k given as a bonus from CP for your 10 year service reflect in the financial records of the OK Grocer  CC: No, it doesn't  MS: Why not?  CC: As it was stated, I also worked at Infinity  MS: Okay, so does the R17k reflect in the books for Infinity?  CC: No  MS: Why not?  CC: It would reflect in his account, he was the owner of Infinity  TP: Do you have any personal knowledge about how this terrible tragedy came about?  CC: No, I don't  TP: Were they satisfied?  CC: No, they kept pressurising me, saying they're sure I know more than I was letting on  TP: Thank you [rests]  PD: No questions    TP: Ms Coutts, do you know anything about an allegation that you and Clarishka were not to speak to each other?  CC: I got the impression she was trying to avoid me  CC: She told me she had also been questioned by the police and been asked not to speak to me  TP: And she mentioned about the phones being cleared on the 26th of April  CC: That is correct  TP: And what did the police say?  CC: They told me I must stop covering for Chris, because the defence will turn everything on me  TP: Who was with you?  CC: My lawyer, Danie Gouws  TP: And how did you feel?  CC: I was shocked, as I knew this was not true  TP: You know what a Section 205 is?  CC: Yes  TP: And they were at one stage going to serve a Section 205?  CC: Yes, they wanted the recordings I had made of our consultations  TP: There is an allegation on the 22nd of November, that Jayde almost caught you and Chris in bed together  CC: That never happened  CC: The 22nd of November was Fanula's birthday, they had a gathering at his house. I was not there.    - COURT IS BACK IN SESSION -   Coutts leaves court during recess. (Derrick Spies/News24)   TP: Do you know a person named Leon Eksteen?  CC: Yes, he was a friend of the Panayiotous  TP: Did he ever take goods from the store?  CC: No, he would come and ask for donations  TP: And did he take goods?  CC: Yes, grocery items  TP: And did he pay for them?  CC: No  [TP asks for a short adjournment]   - COURT IS IN RECESS -   TP: And Chris told you about him getting engaged and getting married?  CC: Yes  TP: It was put on record by Mr Stander, that you and Clarishka had made statements that Chris had Jayde murdered because she is too expensive, did you ever say anything like that?  CC: No  TP: Any idea where they would have got such a story?  CC: No idea   TP: Let us look at her statement further  TP: She said you were in George in 2014  CC: No it was in 2013, in 2014 we celebrated at Infinity  TP: She also told the court about how you got gifts from Chris, a GHD, a bag, etc. CC: Yes  TP: Did she also get gifts from him?  CC: Yes  TP: And any other women get gifts from him?  CC: His mother, his sisters   TP: Let us briefly go to your sister Wendy's wedding  TP: Clarishka Kapp told this court that you and Chris went together to the wedding  CC: I have no idea where she got that  TP: So how did he get to the wedding?  CC: He drove my sister to the wedding  TP: Did you sit with him?  CC: Yes  TP: Who all was at the table?  CC: Members of her family   TP: How close was Mawonga and Siyoni?  CC: I would say they were close friends, they would sit and have a drink  TP: Mawonga's claim is he barely saw Siyoni  CC: No they saw each other almost every weekend  TP: There is mention of a man named Trompie, do you know such a person?  CC: No  TP: Teresa Botha says that there were a number of calls between you and Trompie  CC: No  TP: Did they speak to you about a person named Lendell?  CC: I was asked by Swanepoel, that he was a former employee who used to work at Infinity   TP: Was the conversation ever had between you and Mr Stander about testifying for the defence?  CC: I was told that I would testify for the State, but that if he did not call me, I would not testify for the defence  TP: There have been stories floating around here that Chris forced Jayde to buy the house  CC: No, it was my understanding that Chris wanted to buy the house  TP: Did Chris ever say he was unhappy because Jayde was expensive?  CC: No, never   TP: From the start, we were told that you were going to be a State witness  CC: Yes, I was told that I would have to be prepared to be called, but I was never called  TP: Before Mr Stander closed his case, did he inform you?  CC: No, only after the case was closed  TP: Did Mr Griebenouw consult with you?  CC: No  TP: Did I?  CC: No, only after  TP: Did myself or Mr Griebenouw ever get your statement, prior to the other day?  CC: No   TP: And the house and a car?  CC: I never received a house  TP: And the car?  CC: I traded in my car and got a R40k deposit for it  CC: Chris paid a further R17k towards it, which was given for the work I had done  TP: And he gave you the money?  CC: No he paid it directly to Tavcor   TP: And you consulted with the State?  CC: Yes  TP: And how were you treated?  CC: ... I was treated very badly. They used foul language. They made sexual comments, nasty comments.  TP: I am not going to press the matter, I believe you have recordings but that you are not prepared to comment on it.  CC: I am not comfortable  TP: And did you speak about the way you were being represented in the media?  CC: Yes, I did complain   TP: And you made this available to the police?  CC: My attorney did  TP: After they questioned you?  CC: Mr Swanepoel told me to go back upstairs and tell my mom that I was with friends  CC: I told my mom it had been the police and after consulting with my family we decided to appoint a lawyer  TP: And then on the 4th of May, in the papers?  CC: Yes there was an article saying I was pregnant and that Chris had bought me a house and a car  TP: And what did you do?  CC: I went to the police to ask about what I could do to have the story corrected  TP: And what did they say?  CC: They said I could open a civil suit and gave me the number of an attorney that I could contact. They said they did not speak to the media.   TP: Why did you appoint an attorney?   CC: There was a lot of pressure from the police and the media  CC: The police kept asking me the same questions over and over   TP: You mentioned the 3rd of May   CC: Yes, I received a missed call from Swanepoel, I did not return it  CC: I then got a call from the office saying Mr Swanepoel was looking for me  CC: I called him, he said that they were downstairs waiting for me  CC: I was asked to get into the car with them. They asked me if I was pregnant.  CC: They then asked me if I did cocaine, I told them no.  CC: They then asked me if Chris did cocaine, I told them I would have noticed   TP: What did you do to prove you were not pregnant?   CC: I went to a doctor and had a blood test   TP: And this established that you were not pregnant?   CC: Yes   TP: And the one you saw from Mr Gouws, had three pages?  CC: Yes  TP: And you then received another version, being typed?  CC: Yes, I went through it with my attorney and there were a few items in the statement that we were not happy with  TP: Such as  CC: That the OK Grocer was in financial trouble  TP: Was it?  CC: No  TP: And the other?  CC: That I had been chatting to another person on Facebook and Chris had been upset about it and had had a go at me  TP: And they corrected it?  CC: Yes, the same day  TP: And then you signed it?  CC: Yes   TP: Did you make a statement?  CC: Yes, they did  TP: You know of the statement I'm talking about, the handwritten one by Captain Swanepoel  CC: Yes  TP: When did you become aware of the statement?  CC: After I appointed my attorney, Danie Gouws  TP: Did you sign the pages?  CC: Yes  TP: How many pages were there?  CC: It was two pages   TP: And you signed on the bottom of each page?  CC: Yes   TP: Did you give a statement?  CC: Yes  [CC explains how the police had asked her to make a statement, and how she had offered to meet them, but that the police had told her no she had to go with them]  TP: Where did they take you?  CC: To a house in Shirley Street  TP: How long did they keep you?  CC: About 3 hours  TP: How did you feel about the questions they were asking?  CC: I was confused, scared and felt intimidated by them  TP: What time did they let you go?  CC: I was dropped off back at work at around 19:50   TP: And if it was open like that, how many people would have had access to that?  CC: No, that storeroom is open and many people had access to it  TP: Did he mention finding money with you  CC: No  TP: Did he mention to Christopher Panayiotou (CP)?  CC: I wouldn't know  TP: Well, would CP have told you about it?  CC: I'm sure he would have   TP: You are familiar with Mawonga?  CC: Yes TP: And you know of the case against him?  CC: I led the disciplinary against him  TP: Mawonga said he was deliberately trying to get fired  CC: On the video you can see that he was trying to hide what he was doing  TP: Were you in the office during the disciplinary?  CC: Yes  CC: He was in the office, I informed him about the outcome of the case, he signed it with a sarcastic grin on his face  TP: He also told the court about finding a large sum of money in one of the storerooms  CC: I don't believe that   TP: And is there any way that large sums of money, such as R30k to 40k?  CC: No  TP: DNA was taken from you?  CC: Yes  TP: Why?  CC: They took from me to eliminate me in terms of [touching] DNA on money  CC: They had found four female DNA samples and they wanted to eliminate it  TP: I want to put on record that all four tests came back negative, if Mr Stander wants to counter he is welcome   TP: Did you know Anthony Emmet?  CC: He is regional logistics manager  TP: He is not family of the Panayiotous?  CC: No  TP: Can you explain the checks and balances to ensure that money doesn't go missing?  [Coutts explains]  TP: If there is a shortage, would that appear?  CC: Yes, definitely  TP: And each cashier cashes up their own till?  CC: Yes, each one cashes up and it is sealed in a bag  TP: Did you ever have any problems of money in your time there?  CC: No   TP: How old are you   CC: I am 29   TP: And you are not married or engaged at the moment   CC: No   TP: Can you explain to his lordship, April 2015, what your position was at OK Grocer   CC: I was a manager at OK Grocer   TP: And what does that entail?   CC: HR matters, salaries, day to day running of the store, managing budgets, stock control and finances   (Derrick Spies/News24)  Terry Price: First and foremost, Mr Gouws is sitting to my right, he is representing Ms Coutts  TP: I only intend to call Ms Coutts  [Coutts enters the court formally dressed in a black suit, and is sworn in]    - COURT IS IN SESSION -   Panayiotou Trial: Legal Representatives (Derrick Spies/News24)   Panayiotou Trial: The Accused (Derrick Spies/News24) Panayiotou trial: Mistress expected to testify  Christopher Panayiotou's mistress, Chanelle Coutts, is expected to take to the stand in his defence on Monday morning when the trial resumes in the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth.  Panayiotou and his co-accused, Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko, are facing charges of conspiring, kidnapping, robbing and killing Panayiotou's wife Jayde. A fourth suspect, Sizwezakhe Vumazonke, the alleged hitman, died before the trial began.  The beloved 29-year-old teacher was kidnapped outside her townhouse complex in Kabega Park, Port Elizabeth, while waiting for her lift to Riebeek College Girls High School, on the morning of Tuesday, April 21 in 2015.  She was found shot dead in a veld outside KwaNobuhle township, Uitenhage, the following day.  Details of Panayiotou's sordid affair came to light when Coutts' best friend, Clarishka Kapp, took to the stand for the State a year ago.   ICYMI:  Panayiotou case: Defence asks State witness 6 questions  The defence for Christopher Panayiotou asked a total of six questions of the State witness they recalled on Friday, before court adjourned.  Defence Advocate Terry Price SC, had asked that witness Laurika Booi be recalled.  Booi had worked for Panayiotou at the Inet Lounge in the Cotswold shopping centre complex, and the company had been registered in her name.  Panayiotou and his co accused - Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko - are facing charges of conspiring, kidnapping, robbing and killing Panayiotou's wife Jayde.   ICYMI:  Panayiotou trial: Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions in State's crosshairs  A Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions found himself in the crosshairs of the State during the Panayiotou trial on Thursday, when questioned about his involvement in the authorisation of a sting operation.  Advocate Selwyn Gounden – who oversees prosecution in the province related to organised crime – was called by the defence as a witness on Wednesday and testified that, contrary to evidence given by the police, he had never given the go-ahead for a sting operation to take place.  The sting operation resulted in the recording of a conversation between the alleged middleman who turned State witness, Luthando Siyoni, and Panayiotou, the admissibility of which was part of a lengthy trial-within-a-trial.   ICYMI:  Surprise witness in Panayiotou case  Christopher Panayiotou’s defence opened its case with a surprise witness who disputed evidence given by the police that they had permission to go ahead with the audio and video recording from the Director of Public Prosecutions.  Panayiotou and his co-accused – Sinethemba Nenembe and Zolani Sibeko – are facing charges of conspiring, kidnapping, robbing and killing Panayiotou's wife Jayde. A fourth suspect, Sizwezakhe Vumazonke, the alleged hitman, died before the trial began.  Defence advocate, Terry Price SC, called Advocate Selvan Gounden from the Director of Public Prosecutions.  Price pointed out that investigating officer Kanna Swanepoel had testified in the trial-within-a-trial that he had called Gounden on two separate occasions to get permission to go ahead with the audio and video recording of the meeting between Panayiotou and alleged middleman, turned state witness, Luthando Siyoni.   
                Jump to
                top
            