Caryn Dolley Jerome “Donkie” Booysen. (Son) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town - Suspected Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen has been shot at, according to sources - the third time he has been the target of a shooting this year. Several sources with knowledge of the matter say Booysen was targeted at Cape Town International Airport on Wednesday morning. READ: Shooting rocks Cape Town International Airport News24 understands he was shot four times after apparently being chased into the airport. He was taken to hospital. Police confirmed the two people were wounded but did not reveal their identities. One was a bystander. "The 50-year-old man was at the drop and go section of the airport when occupants in an unknown sedan opened fire on him and fled," police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said. "During the shooting another man, approximately 30 years of age, was struck by a stray bullet."Both victims were treated at the scene and removed to hospital. The condition of the victims is unknown at this stage." It is alleged a BMW X5 and a white vehicle were involved in the incident. A call to Booysen's cellphone by News24 on Wednesday morning went unanswered. Booysen was the target of a shooting in September in Bellville South. He was not wounded. READ: Alleged Sexy Boys gang leader targeted in shooting again On May 8, he was wounded in a shooting in Elsies River. Sources said Booysen had been on his way to visit another man, who was also shot, in the Cravenby area. Meanwhile, operations at the airport have not been affected by the shooting, the Airports Company South Africa said. READ: Cape Town International Airport operational despite shooting - Acsa More to follow.  Random gunshots went off at 05:00 this morning at CT Airport (Drop&Go) One guy wounded. @News24 @ewnupdates pic.twitter.com/JbWUFaQobE     KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  