Derrick Spies (Pic: Jan Gerber, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Mangaung – Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane has welcomed the news that Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has instituted legal action relating to allegations that she was a spy. “I am told our new Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, wants to take the DA to court for calling her a spy. “It has taken her exactly a year to come to this decision. We welcome any opportunity to speak about her background and her ability to perform her job,” he told delegates at the DA's Free State elective conference on Saturday. READ: Public Protector initiates legal action over ‘spy claims’  Maimane said this was not, however, the only legal business the DA had with Mkhwebane. “We have other legal business with the Public Protector that predates this decision of hers by many months.” Estina Dairy Farm report “We are still awaiting her report on the Estina Dairy Farm in Vrede, which was due more than six months ago,” he said. Maimane said in March Mkhwebane had stood in the Free State Legislature and said the investigation was complete and that the report would be released in April. “Of course April came and went, and she promised us a new deadline. In July we were again told it would be out within days. It is now almost November,” he said. “I have it on good authority that the report has been lying on the desk of the Public Protector for months. “It is also highly suspicious that all communication on this matter between her office and the DA in the Free State ended the moment the Gupta email leaks story broke which connected the Vrede farm money with the Gupta wedding,” he said. “I can only assume this hard evidence has set the cat among the proverbial pigeons in her report.” Maimane said the 80 farmers from the local community, who were meant to benefit from the project but had been left stranded, could not wait any longer for justice. “I will be writing to the Public Protector on Monday to demand the release of the report within seven days, failing which we will seek a declarator from the court compelling her to do so,” he said. Maimane said he would also give the Chair of SCOPA, Themba Godi, one more opportunity to schedule a public hearing for the farmers. “If he again refuses, I will bring them to Parliament myself so that they can tell their story to the committee and demand answers,” he said. “These are real people whose dreams have been crushed and whose lives have been put on hold, all because the friends of Zuma and Magashule saw a chance to steal more money. They will not get away with it,” he said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  