Derrick Spies DA leader Mmusi Maimane. (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Mangaung – Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane has warned that the Free State is become a scaled-down version of the Zuma administration and likened the province to a time bomb. “If anyone has an idea of the dire path our country is on, it is you here in the Free State. Because this province, under the awful leadership of Ace Magashule, has become a scaled-down version of the Zuma administration,” he told delegates at the DA’s Free State Elective Conference on Saturday.  He said the province faced the same corrupt captors in the Guptas, the same method of looting the state, the same complete financial mismanagement and the same seemingly untouchable ‘Big Men’ at the helm. “We knew, from the beginning, that Magashule and his then sidekick, Mosebenzi Zwane, were Gupta men through and through.” “We knew that the Vrede Dairy Project was nothing but a cash machine for this government and their Gupta friends,” he said.  Maimane said all this had since been confirmed by the #Guptaemails leaked to the media, including the Gupta links with Magashule’s son. “The result of this runaway corruption can be seen in every single aspect of government delivery here in this province. No department has escaped the damage,” he said.  “Free State Health has all but collapsed, and doctors are leaving the province in droves. Free State Education has an R800 million overdraft. The province has a backlog of unregistered title deeds of over 63 000.  Collectively, Free State municipalities owe Eskom almost R5 billion,” he said. Maimane said the Free also had the highest official unemployment rate in the country. Farm attacks in province out of control “Attacks on farmers and farmworkers in the Free State are out of control, with more than 50 having occurred in the province this year alone,” he said. Maimane said this echoed the crime stats released earlier this week, which confirmed that murders had increased across all communities throughout the country.  “Surely it is time to reintroduce specialised rural safety units within SAPS,” he said.  “This province is a time bomb, and we’re going to have to bring change very soon.” 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  