Aishah Cassiem @Aishah_Cassiem First search efforts revealed no sign of the missing diver from Grassy Park. Rescue services continued their search in the area.PHOTO: National sea rescue institute 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - The body of a missing diver from Grassy Park has finally been found at Saunders Rocks, ending a gruelling week-long search by rescue services.  Nur Mitchell (32), had been diving with his brother in Bantry Bay last Sunday. They were exiting the water in rough sea conditions, but only one of them made it on shore.  Mitchell’s body was recovered by a team of police divers after 14:00 on Sunday.  According to a statement by the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI), Bakoven’s deputy station commander Luke van Riet says duty crew were activated by Transnet at about 11:20 on the day following reports of a diver missing following a dive with his brother at Bantry Bay. “It appeared that while the brothers were exiting the water after a dive in rough sea conditions, the missing man’s brother was able to get out of the surf onto rocks but his brother, a 32-year-old man from Grassy Park, went missing and bystanders raised the alarm,” he says. “The sea rescue craft Rotarian Schipper, nearby at Clifton Beach on a routine training operation at the time, immediately diverted to respond to the scene and a search operation commenced.” NSRI Bakoven rescue swimmers, the City of Cape Town’s fire and rescue services dive unit, the Western Cape government health EMS rescue squad, Life Healthcare response paramedics, City of Cape Town Law Enforcement, the police and a police dive unit all responded to help with the search effort. “An extensive search revealed no sign of the missing man and the EMS/AMS Sky­med rescue helicopter responded to assist in the search, but despite the extensive sea, air and shoreline search operation no sign of the man was found.  “A police dive unit continued with an ongoing search operation.  “Family are being assisted by police and police have opened an investigation,” adds Van Riet. Mitchell’s brother Sabri Mitchell urged members of the public walking in Camps Bay and Sea Point last week to be on the lookout for the father of two, with the hope of returning him to his wife and family for closure.  His family has thanked the community for their prayers and assistance in finding Mitchell, who will be laid to rest this week. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  