'Those who wished me dead will be ashamed,' says Zim VP Mnangagwa after food poisoning scare Harare – Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's deputy, Emmerson Mnangagwa, has reportedly opened up for the first time on his food poisoning scare, saying, however, that he was recovering. Mnangagwa was flown to South Africa for medical attention after he started vomiting and having diarrhea while attending a presidential youth interface rally held in Gwanda in August. Speaking at one of his allies’ memorial service in Masvingo over the weekend, the vice president was quoted by NewsDay as saying that he was indeed poisoned but would not divulge further details. Read more on this story here WATCH: 'Dirty' Harare creating perfect conditions for deadly cobras,' says snake catcher Harare - Uncollected garbage, fires on the outskirts of town and burgeoning backyard poultry production isn’t just making Harare messy, it's also creating ideal conditions for some rather unwelcome guests, says a leading Zimbabwean snake catcher. In one of his latest videos posted to Facebook the fearless @chawaman captures a large cobra in a chicken coop in Harare’s eastern Glen Lorne suburb.  Watch the video below Having deposited the writhing snake into a container for safe relocation, Chawa, who runs the popular Facebook page "Chawa's Wild Adventures", then fishes dead chickens from the hen house: six in all. For more on this story click here  At least 7 killed in Cameroon as anglophones declare 'independence' Buea - At least seven people were killed in Cameroon's restive anglophone belt at the weekend as a separatist group made a symbolic declaration of independence. The separatists chose October 1, the anniversary of the official reunification of the anglophone and francophone parts of Cameroon, to declare independence for "Ambazonia", the name of the state they want to create. Since November, the anglophone minority has been protesting against perceived discrimination. The government deployed security forces at the weekend in English-speaking regions, notably Buea in the southwest and Bamenda, the main town in the northwest and a hub of anglophone agitation. Read more on this story here  Mom, 33, burns self to death inside family car after taking kids to school Harare – A 33-year old woman reportedly burnt herself to death inside a family car just outside the National Sports Stadium in Harare, Zimbabwe last week. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, police confirmed the incident, adding that they found the car burned beyond recognition. The unnamed deceased woman was found inside the family car after "taking children to school". Police suspected that the incident was triggered by a domestic dispute. For more on this story click here  Kenyan police fire tear gas to disperse protesters Nairobi - Kenyan police lobbed tear gas and fired shots in the air on Monday to disperse protesters who are demanding a change of leadership at the country's election commission. The protests took place in the capital Nairobi and the opposition stronghold of Kisumu, in western Kenya, as well as in the coastal city of Mombasa. The protests were called by the opposition group, known by its initials as NASA, whose leader Raila Odinga faces President Uhuru Kenyatta in a rerun of the presidential vote scheduled for October 26. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  