Pam Magwaza PHOTO: Screen shot from video Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Johannesburg woman has shared shocking CCTV footage of three men attempting to hijack her and her husband shortly after returning home.WATCH  A video of a woman fighting off her hijackers has emerged online. The video was posted on a group called News, Accidents, Robberies and Incidents on Facebook and has gained over 33 000 views. According to IOL News, the incident took place in on Cherry Lane in Berea, Durban. In the video, the unnamed woman parks in a driveway, gets out of her car and attempts to open the gate. A few moments later, a Mercedes pulls up behind her car and two men, one carrying a crowbar, dash towards her. She tries to get back into her VW Polo but the men drag her out. Somehow, the brave woman manages to get the crowbar from the would-be hijackers and starts swinging. Her attackers then make a run for it and hop back into their getaway car, which was driven by another suspect. Most viewers on Facebook commended the woman for her bravery but some commented that what she did was a dangerous and she could have lost her life. “That’s not very brave, she put her life on danger. She was so lucky. These criminals aren’t scared of killing anyone,” commented Joshua Goredema. Another viewer expressed his disgust at the criminals. “When will all this end? Criminals getting away with these types of things and the vehicles they drive, unbelievable,” said Trevor Dhara. Berea ward councillor Chris Pappas told YOU that police presence in the area has been lacking until recently. “At the beginning of 2017 the Metro Police suburbs division, which covers the Berea area, only had two vehicles,” said Pappas. After a community outcry, they now have 11. He advised that people “join a neighbourhood watch, report all crimes no matter how small and try to get a private security guard on your street by splitting the cost between neighbours.”    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  