'We won't allow whites to observe our polls,' says Mugabe as he 'wades into Kenya election' Harare – Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabehas reportedly accused non-governmental organisations (NGOs) of interfering in Kenya's elections, saying that civil society had a habit of working with opposition to unseat incumbent presidents. According to New Zimbabwe.com, Mugabe took a swipe at Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga's decision to boycott last week's presidential election re-run, saying that it was as a result of NGOs. "They want to work with opposition parties all the time. In other words, they don't have that impartiality of mind and judgement," Mugabe was quoted as saying. Read more on this story here President Uhuru Kenyatta wins re-run election Nairobi - Kenya's election commission says President Uhuru Kenyatta has won last week's re-run election, which was boycotted by the main opposition group. Wafula Chebukati, the election commission chief, said on Monday that Kenyatta got 7.5 million votes, or 98% of the votes that were cast. Read more on this story here  Mugabe 'tightens screws' on remaining white farmers – report Harare – Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe's government has reportedly continued to "tighten the screws" on the remaining white farmers as it came up with a somewhat "discriminatory policy" that "limits their leases to just five years while their black counterparts will enjoy 99-year-long leases". According to New Zimbabwe.com, lands minister Douglas Mombeshora said over the weekend that resettled black farmers will be issued with the 99-year leases "which are immediately bankable" while the remaining white farmers would have theirs reviewed every five years. "There are white farmers who have been approved by provincial officers to continue farming after satisfying a number of requirements. For more on this story click here  Kenya vote chief silent on rebel areas as uncertainty lingers Nairobi - Kenya's election board remained silent Sunday over plans to reschedule a vote in flashpoint opposition areas, where a boycott sparked violent protests in a poll set to hand President Uhuru Kenyatta a landslide, but tarnished, win. With the counting almost done after Thursday's presidential re-run, the results remained on hold as officials mulled what to do about 25 constituencies in four western counties where voting was blocked. There, supporters of opposition leader Raila Odinga managed to prevent hundreds of polling stations from opening, prompting violent clashes with police which continued for several days, leaving nine dead and scores injured. For more on this story click here  23 police reported hurt in Niger demo Niamey - Twenty-three police were hurt and a police station was set on fire in demonstrations against financial reforms late Sunday in the Niger capital of Niamey, the interior minister and private TV stations reported. "The toll sadly is high: we have 23 injured policemen, four of them seriously hurt. Fourteen vehicles have been destroyed, 10 of them police vehicles," Interior Minister Mohamed Bazoum said on television on Sunday. The police commissariat at the Habou Bene market, the country's biggest trading spot, was torched and the front of the building housing the Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI), Niger's voting watchdog, was vandalised, private television reported. For more on this story click here  At least 5 dead in suicide bombing in Nigeria mosque: militia Kano - At least five people were killed on Monday when a suicide bomber blew himself up inside a mosque in northeastern Nigeria, a militia member assisting the military against Boko Haram jihadists said. The leader of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) in Ajiri Yala, some 15km north of Maiduguri, said the attack happened at about 04:30. "A male suicide bomber disguised as a worshipper entered the mosque while people were gathering for the morning prayers," he told AFP by telephone. For more on this story click here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  