Vincent Lali  Walking bus volunteers outside Bardale Primary School in Mfuleni. (Vincent Lali, GroundUp) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Volunteers for the Walking Bus initiative in Mfuleni escort learners to schools where gangs operate. They accompany the students in all weather. It is often thankless work with parents blaming them when there are incidents at schools, GroundUp reports. They say they want official recognition with stipends, training, equipment and uniforms. The initiative was launched in mid-May in Mfuleni by Community Safety and Security MEC Dan Plato. READ: New walking bus hits the streets Nokuzola Matroos, who has been a volunteer since the start, said: "We duck knives and gangs sometimes, but police just drive past us and don't give us support. "The Department [of Community Safety and Security] said police would show us how to search learners and how to deal with thuggish learners who bring weapons to school," she said.  Monthly stipend But according to her they haven't been given training. Matroos said the volunteers would like monthly stipend of R1 500. She said community members believed they were being paid. "Parents say we get money for doing nothing and shout at us when school kids manage to smuggle weapons on to school premises," she said. But the administrative officer responsible for co-ordinating the project, Raymond Sizani, said: ''They are volunteers and as such they won't get paid. We sometimes buy them food to say thank you. If they don't want to volunteer, they must return bibs to the department and leave the project." Matroos said they work at Manzomthombo High School, Bardale High School and Mfuleni High School. They needed gloves, jackets, raincoats, stop signs and shoes. "Because we don't have stop signs, taxi drivers ignore us when we try to stop them so that kids can cross the streets during peak hours," she said. Kholeka Bucwa, who has also volunteered since May, said: "We don't have money to buy food… We want a stipend because it is the government that asked us to look after kids." Another volunteer, Nomzekelo Depha, said: "It hurts me when my husband says I wake up early but I don't bring money to support our kids. Even my kids ask when I will get paid." Sizani said the department is trying to get funds to buy the volunteers equipment. Plato said: "The department has proposed that the Walking Bus Project volunteer groups be recognised as an activity of accredited neighbourhood watches which could allow access to additional equipment and financial support."  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  