Hazel Phiri Cows. (Heng Sinith, AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      IN South
Africa, the definition of a customary marriage is one that is negotiated,
celebrated or concluded according to any of the systems of indigenous African
customary law which exist in South Africa. The Recognition of Customary
Marriages Act came into effect on 15 November 2000.  WHAT
QUALIFIES AS A CUSTOMARY MARRIAGE?  A customary
marriage must be entered into in terms of tradition. This means that there must
be no white wedding, only a traditional ceremony. What is essential is that
lobola or magadi is exchanged between the two families. At times, there is
confusion around paying lobola whether that alone signifies a customary
marriage or not. According to Move!
legal expert and family law specialist, Nthabiseng Monareng, just paying lobola
is not enough. “Please note that the lobola payment alone does not result in a
customary marriage. There must be lobola and the wife must be handed over as a
wife. If the husband pays lobola and the parties move in together, this will
result in cohabitation,” she says. This means all traditional processes must be followed; paying lobola and
the bride’s family officially handing her over to the groom’s family. ISITHEMBU  Customary
marriages allow for a person to take more than one partner into the marriage.
But it’s important to note all these polygamous marriages need to be customary
marriages. The law is very clear that
you’re not allowed to be in a customary marriage and a civil marriage at the
same time with different people. But as a couple, you can have both a customary
and civil marriage, but this means none of you can enter into other customary
marriages while you are married to each other under civil law. So, if your
husband wants to take a second wife, the law states that he must draw an
agreement or contract which will outline what will happen to the property, how
it will be divided among the wives and then he must apply to the court to approve
the written contract. The court has to make sure all the property interests of
all the wives are protected. COMMUNITY
OF PROPERTY  According
to the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, a customary
marriage is automatically considered to be in community of property. This means
that the husband and wife have an equal share in the assets, money and
property. It also means that they share all the debts. If the parties would
like their marriage to be out of community of property, they will have to enter
into an ante-nuptial contract before getting married. If you want to change
after you are already married, you will have to apply to the High Court. THE
IMPORTANCE OF A MARRIAGE CERTIFICATE  One of the
biggest and most common challenges with customary marriages is the marriage
certificate. Civil marriages are automatically registered with the Department
of Home Affairs and the couple is given a marriage certificate. “The biggest
challenge is non-registering customary marriages. Although non-registration
does not invalidate the marriage, in order to enforce your rights, file for
divorce or be regarded as a surviving spouse, you need a marriage certificate.
If you do not have a marriage certificate, your spouse can marry another person
without your knowledge,” says Nthabiseng. Having a marriage certificate is key
to solving many common disputes in customary marriages. At times, when a partner
dies, the spouse finds themselves with the challenge of proving that they’re the
customary wife. A marriage certificate is legal proof that you are indeed the
deserving spouse.     REGISTERING
CUSTOMARY MARRIAGES  The law
currently stipulates that customary marriages must be registered at Home
Affairs within three months of taking place. You can also register the marriage
through a designated traditional leader in areas with no Home Affairs office.
You will need the following when registering a customary marriage:    ¦ Copies of your IDs and a lobola agreement letter if available.  ¦ One witness from the bride’s family.   ¦ One witness from the groom’s family or  ¦ A representative of each of the families.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  