Kaveel Singh (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Gauteng has written to the government demanding a commission of inquiry be established into the increase in sexual abuse at schools in the province.  DA Shadow MEC for Education Khume Ramulifho said on Tuesday that he had written to Gauteng Premier David Makhura and Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi to act on the increasing number of sexual abuse cases reported in the province.  "Sexual abuse cases in our schools must be taken seriously by the ANC administration in the province. The Premier and the MEC need to respond in a very deliberate and serious manner to this crisis that has shaken the education sector in Gauteng". READ:  Parliament calls for action against sexual abuse in schools. Ramulifho said that the children and future of the country had to be protected. "We must protect their human rights and dignity. Learners and parents should be reassured that the provincial government is taking strong action". He called on Makhura and Lesufi to "act now to allow the process of healing to begin and to ensure that our children are not further robbed of their youth". Several schools in the province have reported incidents of sexual abuse against pupils, many largely female. The worst case so far involved a pupil patrolman accused of sexually abusing 87 pupils at a Soweto school. Place of safety Lesufi also visited a school in Mamelodi where a security guard allegedly raped a 17-year-old girl. The attack happened a few weeks ago during a matric dance. Another pupil patroller was also arrested after he allegedly raped the 17-year-old school girl. Lesufi says the 28-year-old man has been fired and is due to appear in court later this week. Chairperson for parliament's select committee on education and recreation Lungelwa Zwane on Monday said that the school environment should at all times be a place of safety, where children were able to learn without hindrance.  "The safety of the school environment must be reasserted to ensure that parents feel free to send their children to school and that learners are able to learn because education is vital in fighting the triple scourges of poverty, inequality and unemployment," said Zwane. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  