Emmerson Mnangagwa. (File: AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF party has maintained that its
special congress to be held in December will not be used to fire President
Robert Mugabe's lieutenants. According to the state-owned
Sunday News, Zanu-PF National Secretary for Administration Ignatius Chombo
said that contrary to claims by the private media that the congress would be
used to dismiss Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa, Mugabe had made it clear
that focus would be on polls. In an unusual development,
Zanu-PF was set to hold a special congress in December ahead of the 2018
elections. "The President has agreed
with what the provinces have said [regarding the convening of an extraordinary congress]. He has given us the go-ahead to start the official processes that
are procedural and necessary to have the congress. "As of now, the most important matters that have come out from the
provinces are that the congress is being held with a view to preparing the
party for next year's harmonised elections," Chombo was quoted as saying. Two distinct factions  The congress had been brought forward by two years, a development, which some analysts said was designed to help Mugabe entrench his family's hold on power. Recent reports indicated
that there was a proposed push ahead of the congress to include a woman in the
presidium, a move seen by many as a way by the party's G40 faction to ensure
that its leader First Lady Grace Mugabe became vice president.   Zanu-PF was divided into two distinct factions that sought to
outwit each other in the battle to succeed Mugabe.  One
of the camps calling itself "Team Lacoste" was linked to Mnangagwa,
while another faction made up of Young Turks trading by the name Generation
40 was reportedly linked to Grace. G40 was said to be seeking to torpedo
Mnangagwa's presidential ambitions.  However, both Mnangagwa and the
First Lady have publicly denied harbouring presidential ambitions.   According to NewsDay, Grace's allies were said to be pushing for her
elevation at the congress.  'Personal and individual interests'  The report said that the G40
faction was allegedly plotting to use the event to either push out Mnangagwa
and replace him with Grace or create the post of a third vice-president to
sneak the First Lady in. Meanwhile, Zimbabwe's former freedom fighters vowed last week to stop the alleged plan to get Mugabe's wife elected as a vice president. The chairperson of Zimbabwe
National Liberation War Veterans Association in Bulawayo, Caphas Ncube, said
that they were "watching them [G40] closely" and would "defend
the revolution we fought for". Ncube said, however, that the war
veterans were not against the proposed extraordinary conference, but were
against the continuous "changing of the party's constitution to suit
personal and individual interests". "We cannot have a situation
where the party's constitution is being changed at the behest of other
people," Ncube was quoted as saying. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  