Bongani Mdakane Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  A MOTHER’S
love for her nyaope addicted son was unconditional, but sadly, she met her
death at his hands. Gogo Cecelia Ntelele (72) went missing for more than a
month and it was only her son, Molefi Ntelele (46) who knew of her whereabouts.
Gogo Cecelia’s distraught niece, Thenjiwe Rapoo (40) tells Move! that the
family is still shocked and traumatised by the discovery of Gogo’s body in
Molefi’s shack in Finetown, south of Joburg. MYSTERY
OVER MISSING GOGO Thenjiwe
says when it was discovered that Gogo Cecelia was missing, they asked questions
about her whereabouts and were told by Molefi that she went to Bloemfontein
with a relative named Thabo. “We grew suspicious because we don’t have such
a relative in the family. What concerned us more was when Molefi kept asking
his daughter, Keke, to give him with the pin code of my aunt’s Sassa card. All
of this didn’t make sense,” she says. She says it also didn’t make sense that
her aunt would leave with a stranger and leave her clothes and crutches behind.
“The family started panicking and Molefi couldn’t provide any accurate
answers,” says Thenjiwe. SHOCKING
DISCOVERY IN A SHACK Thenjiwe
says there was something unsettling about the whole situation and what alerted
them something could be wrong was a foul smell in Molefi’s shack. The family
called the police and when the police searched the shack, they found a heap of
soil under a sofa, which was covered with a mat. This is where the foul smell
came from. “I never thought that the smell would come from my aunt’s body,
which was buried in a shallow grave. At first when the police questioned Molefi
about the foul smell, he failed to give them an explanation. But after they dug
up the body, he confessed that he had killed and buried his mother there. What
he has done is cruel,” says Thenjiwe. A neighbour, who asked to remain
anonymous, claims that Molefi had asked one of his neighbours to borrow him a
pickaxe as he wanted to use it. “He claimed he was going to use it to dig a
trench in his yard as the rain water was filling the place. We later found out
that he killed his mother and just knew that he used the pickaxe to dig the
shallow grave,” says the neighbour. The neighbour says he was shocked that
Molefi could continue eating and sleeping in the two-roomed shack as if
everything was normal while his mother was lying in the shallow grave. “What
kind of person eats and sleeps with a dead body in the house? Clearly he is
mentally disturbed. When he was asked about what he did, he was very calm and
showed no sign of regret or remorse.” TROUBLED
SOUL WITH A SHADY PAST Move!
understands that Molefi used a hammer to clobber his defenceless mother to
death. “This is not the first time he attacked his mother. He was arrested last
year after he raped his mother and poured her with boiling water. Molefi takes
drugs and smokes crack, cocaine and nyaope. When he is around people in the
neighbourhood, he is sweet, but changes as soon as he smokes,” says the neighbour.
“He was abusive to his mother. She used to tell us how he beat her up and
demanded sex from her, but she said she was scared to report him to the police
as he vowed to kill her if she said anything about what he did to her.” A MOTHER WHO LOVED HER SON It is
alleged that a day before the discovery of gogo Cecelia’s remains, Molefi
rented out gogo’s RDP house, which is in the same yard as his shack, to
strangers.  “Molefi brought people to
live in my aunt’s house. We asked them who gave them permission to live
there and they said it was Molefi. We told them that she was missing and they
left on the day my aunt was discovered buried in the shack,” she says. Thenjiwe
says gogo Cecelia loved Molefi in a big way. “She used to live in Magson Manor,
across the Golden Highway, with her daughter and would come to Finetown to
check on Molefi as he used to get sick a lot, but now he killed her,” says
Thenjiwe, adding that the family is still trying to come to terms with what
happened. POLICE
COMMENT Soweto West
Cluster police spokesperson, Sergeant Vincent Mashiteng says Molefi was
arrested and is facing charges of murder. “On 19 February, we arrested a
46-year-old man for the murder of a 72-year-old woman in Finetown. A murder
weapon was taken by the police and a case of murder was opened at the Ennerdale
police station,” says Sergeant Vincent. At the time of going to print, Molefi
had made his first appearance in court and his case was postponed to a later
date.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  