Reporter IN the build-up to last year’s election on August 3, the then DA mayoral candidate, Athol Trollip, and now the Nelson Mandela Bay Executive Mayor, was very vocal about his determination to rid the metro of bucket toilets.  He involved the Human Rights Commission to underscore his revulsion at the indignity of these toilets, the use of which was at that stage imposed on approximately 16 000 metro residents. Member of mayoral committee for infrastructure and engineering Annette Lovemore said that the bucket system will be a thing of the past by December this year. “It is now over a year since the election and Nelson Mandela Bay has been hard at work to ensure that every last bucket will disappear from our landscape by the end of December this year.  “This was an election promise, it cannot be left at the ballot box. It is a commitment made out of caring and determination to govern well and deliver services for all. We are very serious about seeing it through,” Lovemore said. “Already, we have removed more than 4 000 buckets, mostly through the relocation of residents to their homes or the sites of their future homes. In both scenarios, full flush toilets have been provided.” Lovemore added that for those communities that will not be relocated or housed soon, the wait for housing must be a dignified one.  “Numerous sanitation options were proposed to residents through rigorous public participation processes. It was decided that a communal sanitation solution would be rolled out for those still waiting for homes.  “The first of these successfully trialled facilities will be launched soon. Each will feature flush toilets, showers and wash basins. Each will be well lit for safety and well managed by community members to ensure hygienic conditions, and importantly jobs.”  Lovemore said that although there had been resistance from some communities, every bucket would be removed by the end of December. “Where there have been delays, the roll-out of communal sanitation has been scheduled for early 2018, with the immediate installation of chemical toilets as an interim measure,” she said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  