Suzanne Venter Jennifer Ferguson. Picture: Annika Björndotter 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     “It was so violent, I just froze.” So said Jennifer Ferguson (55), describing the ­moment Safa head Danny Jordaan allegedly raped her.  Ferguson made headlines this week after she posted on Facebook, accusing Jordaan of raping her.  Her post was in solidarity with the #MeToo hashtag that dominated social media over the past week. The former ANC MP and singer, now living in Sweden, said the incident allegedly took place 24 years ago.  “I was performing at a sports banquet of some sort in Port Elizabeth. I had not met him before, but he came across as a pleasant person.  “He invited me to join him for a drink. I told him that I quickly wanted to go and change into something more comfortable because I was still in the clothes that I had performed in. And then I would come and find him downstairs.  “The next moment, he was in the lift with me. When I opened the door to my room, he was in the doorway.  “I told him to wait in the lounge of my suite and that I would be right back. I went into the bedroom and began to change my clothes. Suddenly, the door opened and he was behind me and the next moment he grabbed me and violently raped me.  “It was so violent and I just froze. It was almost as if I’d left my body and was watching this whole experience from ‘outside’. “I was in a state of shock. It felt like an eternity, but actually, it was all over in about 30 seconds.”  “He then left and I went and showered and washed and washed. I just wanted to get ‘clean’. “I got dressed and left the hotel and went for a walk. I didn’t even know where I was going. I ended up on the beach and I just sat there. For hours.” Jordaan did not respond to numerous requests for comment sent by City Press’ sister paper, Rapport. City Press also offered him the opportunity to comment, but he did not respond. Ferguson said she wanted to go to the police at the time of the alleged rape, but feared the abuse and stigma rape victims often face when reporting their assault. “I just felt so lonely as I didn’t have anybody with me. If that had not been the case, I probably would have gone to the police.  “It was a very difficult time in our country. It was in the months before the important election in 1994. And I mean, I’m a white woman who wanted to go and accuse a black man of rape. I didn’t know how to handle it at all. I was afraid I would alienate my ANC family.”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  