Nation Nyoka Western Cape Community Safety MEC Dan Plato. (Jenni Evans, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Chris Loubser, a farm manager on the farm of a well-known Franschoek businessman, made this emotional video, in which he pleads with South Africans to wear black next Monday to commemorate the lives of those killed in farm attacks. Watch. 

WATCH Cape Town – Western Cape Community Safety MEC Dan Plato has condemned the recent farm attacks and murders in the province, saying that it won't be tolerated.  Plato was speaking at a joint briefing with provincial management of the police and AfriForum on farming and rural safety. He said in a statement that more needs to be done to ensure the safety of community members, as violent crimes were highest in areas where police were under-resourced.  Plato said the Western Cape is experiencing a 10-year high in the number of murders committed.  "The crime statistics show that, on average, every day the police [record] 9 counts of murder, 9 counts of attempted murder, 66 counts of assault with the intent to inflict grievous bodily harm, 109 counts of assault and 65 counts of robbery with aggravated circumstances."  Plato highlighted that violent crimes are not confined to gang hotspots or where the drug trade is rife. "As we have seen recently again in Klapmuts, firearms in the hands of those with criminal and evil intent rip loved ones from our lives, scars families and threatens entire communities’ way of life," he said. Plato said in the statement that challenges in crime prevention initiatives had to be addressed by way of partnerships with organisations such as AfriForum. He urged farming communities to work with police and neighbourhood watches to unite against crime.  Plato said they would continue to fight for: Meanwhile in a statement, Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula said that he had met with AgriSA to assist the organisation in finding solutions to the concerns they raised around farm murders and attacks.  Mbalula called for non-violence ahead of the planned protest due to take place in the Western Cape on Monday.  He said he recognises the right to protest, but warned against the blocking of roads using trucks.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  