Jan Bornman A police officer has been caught on camera asking for a R200 bribe from a driver who was pulled over for alleged drunken driving. Watch.WATCH  Johannesburg - A police officer who prioritised sorting out her DStv accounts instead of helping a member of the public might have landed herself in trouble. Gauteng police have launched an investigation into a police officer caught on camera "prioritising personal needs over the needs of a member of the public" after a video surfaced showing the cop on the phone trying to sort out her accounts. The video, which was shot at the Buccleuch satellite station which falls under the Sandton police station in Johannesburg, shows the officer at the complaints desk sorting out her issues with her MultiChoice accounts. The police officer reads back account numbers to the person on the other end of the line in an attempt to determine the problems with her accounts."Ja, to be reconnected, because it is giving me problems [sic]. You are charging me and it is off," the police officer in the video can be heard saying. "I'm not happy," she said.  Gauteng police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said in a statement that SAPS and Acting Provincial Police Commissioner Major-General Nombhuruza Napo had "noted with concern a video clip that has gone viral, depicting a member of the South African Police Service prioritising personal needs over the needs of a member of the public"."Such conduct by any member of the SAPS is unbecoming and can never be condoned, as ours is first and foremost, to serve and to protect," said Napo.As a result, the SAPS had instituted an internal investigation into the conduct of the police officer with immediate effect."The initial process entails gathering as much facts as possible. This will include tracing and locating the complainant," Peters told News24.SAPS had requested that the person who filmed the video contact the police to assist with their investigation into the officer. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  