Derrick Spies, Correspondent Students protest during Fort Hare University’s centenary celebrations. (Lizeka Tandwa, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Alice – Police are still monitoring the situation at the University of Fort Hare, although there is currently a lull at the campus that has been rocked by violent protests. On Monday, it was reported that the university had decided to close the Alice campus until further notice after a student centre was set alight, causing damage worth an estimated R200 000. READ: University of Fort Hare closes Alice campus after violent protests Police spokesperson Captain Siyasanga Nontshinga said a meeting was scheduled to take place between management and student representatives at 10:00 on Tuesday. Nontshinga said the reports that the student centre was the building that was destroyed in the fire on Monday were also incorrect, as it was in fact the staff centre, and it had only been partially damaged by the fire. "The furniture and the artworks that were inside are the only things that were burnt into ashes," she said. Last week, the Alice campus was brought to a standstill when disgruntled students allegedly vandalised a bookshop, cut the campus electricity, blocked roads, stoned vehicles, and looted livestock and grocery items from passing cars. READ: University of Fort Hare protests result in R1.9m rampage at bookstore A meeting of the student representative council and management last week Tuesday failed to defuse tensions over issues including periodic water outages, and power cuts and Wi-Fi connectivity downtime at residences.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  