Nation Nyoka EFF leader Julius Malema. (Gallo Images)  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says the party rejects Tuesday's Cabinet reshuffle, but are happy that former Higher Education minister Blade Nzimande is out. Watch. 
 
WATCH Johannesburg – Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says he has had an attempted hack on his personal email account on Tuesday, labelling it an "attack from a kleptocratic state".  He tweeted a screenshot of a message from Gmail, which stated that "government-backed attackers may be trying to steal your password".  Speaking to News24, Malema said he believes that the state is behind the attack, adding that they have previously tried to hack his Twitter account.  "We have been accused of being CIA spies, but there is no evidence of this. We are under constant illegal investigation and we can’t do anything about it. They are tampering with our phones and our cellphones too," he said.  Malema said that he was waiting for an IT specialist to assist him as he could not access his mailbox, and although he is able to send emails, he cannot access his inbox despite attempting to change his password numerous times. Fellow South Africans, I’m under attack from kleptocratic state. I can’t even retrieve my emails because they are trying to hack my account pic.twitter.com/A7oh6bMWDv He expressed his frustration at the invasion of privacy he was experiencing. "The investigations are not properly authorised by anyone of authority. They [the state] invade our privacy with the aim of trying to embarrass us and our families by circulating what is in our mail. We are not scared because we are not engaged in any illegal activities and have nothing to hide. Anything in those mails can be discussed in the open," he said. Spokesperson of the State Security Agency, Brian Dube would not be drawn in to comment on the matter, saying that the response in the screenshot did not say which government it was. "It can be any government, so it doesn't warrant a comment. If it was specific, I would understand, but since no specific government is named, I don't even think you should mention us. You can write whatever you want without mentioning us," he told News24. Twitter reacted by advising Malema on security measures he can implement going forward, while others humorously speculated about who may be behind the attacks. Enable two-factor authentication on your Google account and use a very strong password you don't use on other sites! I cannot believe this. It must be this new Intelligence Minister. He said he's gonna hire computer literate youth?? pic.twitter.com/aEHqlvxuaU Yoh...weirder things still 2 come...the nearer we get 2019. Be very careful, CIC pic.twitter.com/RFDtyfYhWy "Hallo Mahlobo,try this the password - BabakaDuduzane784" pic.twitter.com/68kqOVZocJ Putin is dealing with you CIC. Ask @HillaryClinton and the @FBI pic.twitter.com/r48ip6lXa1 Zuma Rn pic.twitter.com/KhmUhvF2fA 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  