Jenni Evans Major-General Andre Lincoln outside the Western Cape High Court. (Caryn Dolley/News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Police cluster commander for the Winelands district, Major General André Lincoln, was on Tuesday granted leave to appeal the Western Cape High Court's dismissal of his damages claim against the police minister. "This is a victory for us," Lincoln said after Judge Judith Cloete granted him leave to take his case to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA). ALSO READ: Ex-Mandela cop's claim against police minister dismissed After a fairly stern grilling of Lincoln's counsel, Johnny Nortje and Anton Krige, Cloete said that in the context of the history of the long-running case, they were granted leave to appeal to a full bench of the SCA. Nortje and Krige appeared astounded. Lincoln, who was present in court in his blue police uniform, sued the minister for R15m in damages. Framed The action stemmed from claims that he was maliciously investigated and prosecuted. In 2003, he was acquitted on appeal of 17 charges against him. Initially, the suit included the minister of justice and constitutional development. However, he withdrew that part of his claim. In the nineties, Lincoln had been commander of the Presidential Investigation Task Unit, under former president Nelson Mandela. ALSO READ: Mandela murder plot was 'covered up' - top cop The unit was supposed to probe Italian mafioso Vito Palazzolo and his links to government officials, police, and businessmen. Lincoln had been of the view that he was framed after fellow senior police officers realised he had gathered intelligence on their plans, including one to murder Mandela, News24 previously reported. Some of the charges against him included fraud and theft.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  