Jeanette Chabalala PHOTO: Gallo Images/Getty Images 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – A 50-year-old woman who was holidaying in Mossel Bay was found dead, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said on Thursday. The woman from Benoni, east of Johannesburg, went missing on Wednesday while on holiday with her partner, NSRI Mossel Bay station commander Andre Fraser said. She had apparently taken a walk in the vicinity of Pinnacle Point, Mossel Bay, earlier in the day, Fraser said. Fraser said the NSRI and the SAPS conducted an extensive search which was suspended at 03:00 on Thursday morning and resumed at first light. The police K-9 search and rescue team and the EMS/AMS Skymed rescue helicopter also joined the search. "The police K-9 search and rescue team located the body of the female along the coastline near to Pinnacle Point and the body of the female was recovered and taken into the care of the forensic pathology services and police." Police have opened an inquest docket. Rough seas, strong winds In a separate incident, on Wednesday afternoon the NSRI was alerted by the Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre of a crewman who had been critically injured on board the bulk carrier MV Grand Amanda which was approximately 189 nautical miles off-shore of the East Coast and rerouting toward East London. The man had injuries and fractures to his legs and thighs. NSRI spokesperson Craig Lambinon said a government emergency medical services duty doctor had provided medical advice to the ship's crew to help in treating the man. Unfavourable sea conditions and the distance ruled out a helicopter patient evacuation and the ship was diverted toward the nearest port, Lambinon said.  He said rough seas and 50-knot easterly winds prevented paramedics from boarding the ship. The man succumbed to his injuries in the early hours of Thursday morning on the ship. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  