(iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - ANC presidential candidate Lindiwe Sisulu questioned on rape allegations against President Jacob Zuma, more details emerge in the Life Esidimeni hearings and the Hawks confirmed it is investigating SAP as part of its state capture probe. Here are some of the top stories of the day: SA identified by World Health Organisation as priority country for plagueSouth Africa is one of nine countries which have been prioritised by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to prepare itself for possible "black death" plague cases. This was due to its trade and travel links with Madagascar. More 'Pay back the money! She is a thief!' ANC chants at De Lille during council meetingPatricia De Lille has said she has not stolen a single cent, insisting she had enough money to even consider lending money to the City of Cape Town.ReadPICTURES: Senzo Meyiwa's career in picturesIt's been three years since the shock murder of Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa.Have a look at this gallery by Sport24'I believe Khwezi believed she was raped' - Lindiwe SisuluHuman Settlements Minister and ANC presidential candidate Lindiwe Sisulu has said she believes Khwezi "believed she was raped" by President Jacob Zuma.More Farm murders: South Africans urged to observe 'Black Monday'AfriForum
 and AgriSA have joined the call for South Africans to wear black on 
Monday next week to commemorate the lives of those killed in farm 
attacks.Full storyLife Esidimeni: 'Police struggled to get information from health depts'The head of detective services in the South African Police Service has told the Life Esidimeni hearings that a team of investigators he appointed struggled to obtain information from the national and provincial health departments.ReadALERT: Stormy weather expected for parts of SASouth African Weather Service has issued an alert for stormy weather expected in parts of the country on Thursday and Friday.Find out moreA parent’s guide to surviving matric finalsThe anguish of parenting a matriculant can become all too much, especially with the high stakes of end-of-year exams. Here are 5 ways to deal.More'Oubaas' gets a makeover for new role in kykNET soapieActor and director Pierre van Pletzen is getting ready to make his appearance as a brand-new character in the Afrikaans soap Getroud met Rugby. Channel24 has the full story                                                         Pierre van Pletzen. (Gallo Images)'No-one can be linked' to treason allegations against McBrideInvestigations have revealed that there appears to be no substance to the allegations of treason made against IPID head Robert McBride.Angelique Serrao filed this reportWhy the US and not SA, critics ask SAP on state capture probeGerman software giant SAP’s reluctance to approach South African authorities has come under fire, as the Hawks confirmed it was investigating SAP as part of its state capture probe.Fin24 has the full story Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  