Jan Gerber Cyril Ramaphosa arrives at CPUT for his address to Nehawu, where he called on civil servants to be the first line of defence against state capture. (Jan Gerber, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa is a guest speaker at National Health Education & Allied Workers Union (Nehawu's) 30th anniversary, which is being held at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) on Friday. Watch. 

 WATCH Cape Town – Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has urged civil servants to be the first line of defence against state capture. Speaking at the 30th birthday celebrations of the public sector trade union Nehawu, at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's (CPUT) Bellville campus on Friday, Ramaphosa first lauded the union and its members for their role in transforming South Africa. He also came out in support of their call to end outsourcing, before shifting gears to state capture. "You are the first line of defence in protecting our state," Ramaphosa said. He said they should be protecting the state against "nefarious and illicit conduct" by people who had no interest in the country. "Our state is now being talked about in the most negative terms in the world," Ramaphosa said. "That is not the South Africa we want, that is not South Africa of our dreams." 'We are done with corruption in South Africa' He said Nehawu members should lead public servants in refusing to implement illegal instructions. "Our people have no one else to turn to if you fail to protect the state," he said. "Comrades, we must now say, we are done with corruption in South Africa!" He conceded that the ANC-led government had failed to live up to the high expectations of the country, and that there was a need to "introspect and review". READ: 'Why did you not do anything about corruption?' ANC MP asks Ramaphosa "Where the state has been weak, it means we have faltered." He said the confidence of the people, who were rightly concerned, had to be regained. "We must rid our country of all these nefariousness that happens in our country – the looting that happens," he said. "Where we have erred, we should be willing to be accountable." He said leaders should take responsibility, rather than run away and "go to courts to defend ourselves". 'We are ready for Ramaphosa!' Ramaphosa never mentioned the names Zuma or Gupta, and only spoke about state capture and corruption in general terms. He also did not address the recent Cabinet reshuffle, nor the rumours that he was about to be axed as deputy president. ALSO READ: Rumours of Ramaphosa axing roils rand He called for unity in the tripartite alliance. "This alliance is an important one," he said. Ramaphosa said they wanted to emerge from the ANC's elective conference in December with the best policies for the country and the "best leadership that is going to take the country forward". When Ramaphosa concluded, the crowd of about 300 people burst out in song. "We are ready! We are ready for Ramaphosa!" they sang.      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  