Paul Herman SA Police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - The portfolio committee on police said the country needs to have a new national police commissioner appointed as soon as possible to fix operational problems in the SAPS. The portfolio committee wrapped up its budget review and recommendations report (BRRR) process on Friday. Committee chairperson Francois Beukman said that an appointment of a permanent police head was needed as a matter of urgency to stabilise the SAPS after it received its first qualified audit in eight years. "The country needs a competent accounting officer who has energy, strategic vision and innovative plans to fight crime, corruption and the proliferation of illegal firearms," Beukman said. ALSO READ: SAPS shake-up: Mbalula to crack down on 'top-heavy' police, crime intelligence overspendingLieutenant General Lesetja Mothiba has been acting in the position since June 1. This after his two predecessors, Khomotso Phahlane and Riya Phiyega, were both relieved of their duties early in their tenures. Included in the challenges of the SAPS in the 2016/17 financial year were: - lack of stability in key positions;- lack of internal controls; and- poor leadership. Hawks budget The committee called on Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula to ensure compliance and to meet with the accounting officers of the SAPS, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate and the Civilian Secretariat of Police to address the poor audit findings. It also proposed that the Hawks investigative unit get its own budget report so that it can get the funding it requires. The unit is also without a permanent head. Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata has been acting as Hawks head since April. Mbalula will be called by the committee to also respond to allegations that some members of top SAPS management "misled" Parliament about the security vetting of certain generals. It was revealed in July that then newly appointed crime intelligence boss Major General Pat Mokushane, who has since been fire, had still not received top secret security clearance‚ despite having been in the job for more than a month. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  