Kenya poll commissioner quits, says election cannot be 'credible' Nairobi - One of Kenya's eight election commissioners quit on Wednesday in a searing statement accusing her colleagues of political bias and saying an upcoming presidential election cannot be credible. "The commission in its current state can surely not guarantee a credible election on 26 October 2017. I do not want to be party to such a mockery to electoral integrity," Roselyn Akombe wrote in the statement from New York. The resignation of one of the country's top poll officials is the latest dramatic twist in an election process that has plunged the East African nation into crisis. For more on this story click here Tanzanian opposition figure out of intensive care after attack Nairobi - Tanzanian opposition figure Tundu Lissu, who was shot and critically injured at his home last month, is now out of intensive care, his party CHADEMA said on Tuesday. Lissu, who was attacked on September 7, left the unit at a hospital in Nairobi last week, after having undergone 17 operations, CHADEMA chief Freeman Mbowe told media in Dar es Salaam. He can now eat and sit without help and no longer requires respiratory support, Mbowe said. When Lissu eventually leaves hospital, he will receive further treatment outside Nairobi, Mbowe added, refusing to give details for what he said were security reasons. Read more on this story here  Ramaphosa in Lesotho for post-elections national dialogue Cape Town – Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, in his capacity as SADC facilitator to Lesotho, is expected in Maseru on Wednesday, to attend the country's landmark post-elections national dialogue. In a statement, the presidency said that the SADC Oversight Committee, the SADC Council of NGOs and the United Nations were set to participate in the two-day event to be held under the auspices of the Lesotho Council of NGOs (LCN). Invitees included opposition party representatives, parties in government, heads of churches, the College of Chiefs, civil society organisations, academics, media and the Independent Electoral Commission. For more on this story click here  Million-dollar ring saga: Zim First Lady Grace Mugabe goes to court Harare - Zimbabwean First Lady Grace Mugabe is still battling to be repaid more than a million US dollars she claims to have lost to a Lebanese businessman in a botched diamond ring deal. The First Lady's lawyers filed papers at the Harare High Court on Tuesday, according to state media. An 'inferior ring' Grace Mugabe claims to have paid Lebanese businessman, Jamal Joseph Ahmed $1.35 million dollars for a diamond ring in 2015, but was supplied with an "inferior ring" worth just $30 000. She alleges that Ahmed has only paid back $120 000. Now she wants the court to target his Zimbabwean properties and business interests if he doesn't settle the debt. Read more on this story here  Kenya opposition suspends reform protests after killings Nairobi - Kenya's opposition leader Raila Odinga has suspended protests intended to press for reforms to the electoral commission ahead of the repeat presidential elections on October 26. Odinga said on Tuesday that after the killings of his supporters by police he called off the daily protests he had urged for this week. Human rights groups have accused the police of being used by President Uhuru Kenyatta to crush dissent. For more on this story click here  Nigerian court postpones absent Pro-Biafran leader trial Abuja - The leader of a pro-Biafran group that wants to break away from Nigeria failed to appear in court on Tuesday as his treason trial was scheduled to resume. Nnamdi Kanu, who heads the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) movement, was nowhere to be seen as proceedings resumed at the Federal High Court in the capital, Abuja. Prosecutor Shuaibu Labaran said Kanu's absence was "contrary to the order of this court" but the separatist leader's lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, said: "I don't know where my client is. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  