Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille. (Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - An heroic train driver is in recovery after rescuing commuters, 23 explosive weapons have been found in the Las Vegas shooter's room and reports claim that Grace Mugabe has donated 'used underwear' to Zanu-PF supporters. Here are some of Tuesday's leading stories on News24: De Lille and Smith placed on special leave over spat - DA The Democratic Alliance has placed Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille and mayoral committee member for safety, security and social services, JP Smith on special leave from party activities in the Cape metropole. Read IN FOCUS: Arch for Arch a reminder of how far we've come When Kjetil Thorsen, founding partner of the world renowned Norwegian architecture firm Snøhetta, met Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu a few years ago in Stockholm he had no idea how invested he would one day become in his legacy. More MH370: ‘Inconceivable’ that location of plane is still a mystery The disappearance of the aircraft on a flight to Beijing from the Malaysian capital of Kuala Lumpur has become one of the world’s greatest aviation mysteries. HuffPostSA has the full story WATCH: 23 explosive weapons found in Las Vegas shooter's room At least 23 guns have been discovered in the hotel room of the shooter who unleashed hundreds of rounds of gunfire on a crowd of concertgoers in Las Vegas.  Cosatu threatens to picket Boks v All Blacks TestCosatu is threatening to picket Saturday's Rugby Championship clash between South Africa and New Zealand.Read  Say what?! Buzz over NASA's P.O.E.S. satellite project The Polar Operational Environmental Satellites NASA programme, or P.O.E.S. for short, first got a chuckle out of South Africans in 2008 and has periodically made a comeback to amuse the Twittersphere over the last 10 years. It has resurfaced once again on GoodThingsGuy recently and it's still as hilarious as the first time. Click here for more Grace Mugabe 'donates used underwear' to Zanu-PF supporters – report Zimbabwean First Lady Grace Mugabe has reportedly drawn criticism from health and political activists after she allegedly donated used underwear to Zanu-PF party supporters in the eastern border city of Mutare. More                                        Oscar and his brother Carl Pistorius (Photo: Gallo) Carl Pistorius: We will be taking legal action and Reeva's dad learnt about Pistorius movie via social media The family of Reeva Steenkamp as well as the brother of Oscar Pistorius, Carl have both expressed their shock and dismay about the film Oscar Pistorius: Blade Runner Killer, which centres on Oscar's court case following the fatal shooting of Steenkamp. Channel24 has more HERE and HERE    Wheels of change: Wheelchair beauty queen wants to change the status quoLebohang Monyatsi is no stranger to adversity. She was diagnosed with polio at three-years-old, and has struggled to walk for most of her life. She is South Africa's very first wheelchair runway model. Find out more here  Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  