James de Villiers Angus Buchan (Mlungisi Louw, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Well-known evangelist and KwaZulu-Natal farmer Angus Buchan on Thursday called on South African farmers to "exercise extreme restraint" following a wave of farm murders in the country. In a video released on his Facebook page, Buchan said he was speaking "with a heavy heart" about the "reports of many farm murders taking place". ALSO READ: Buchan's message for Zuma: 'Don't play with God' "This is [however] not a time to put petrol on the fire. It's not just farmers that are getting murdered in our beloved South Africa, it is people – black and white. "We need to stand together as Christians and we need to continue to pray." Buchan's video followed a series of messages circulating on social media, calling on South African farmers to take up arms to defend themselves. 'Stand together - black and white' This was after Franschhoek farm manager Chris Loubser posted a video on social media, pleading with South Africans to wear black on Monday after his friend Joubert Conradie was shot and killed on his farm in Klapmuts, Cape Town. AfriForum and AgriSA have also called on people to participate by wearing black on Monday to commemorate the lives of those killed in farm attacks. Buchan repeated a call he made earlier in the year for Christians to "turn from their wicked ways" and "pray". ALSO READ: Maimane, others pray together for SA at Buchan's Bloem gathering Quoting 2 Chronicles 7:14, Buchan said if they do that, the Lord promised that he would "hear from heaven" and "heal the land". The current wave of murders "comes from the devil himself", Buchan said. "Like never before I am appealing to all Christians to stand together – black and white – and stand in prayer that the Lord will deliver us from this problem that we are facing in our nation at the moment."    On Tuesday, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula said he was in contact with the farming community regarding farm attacks, and that police were implementing a rural safety strategy. Speaking during the presentation of the national crime statistics for 2016/17, Mbalula said he had met with AgriSA, which he said was also using its resources to help with rural safety. He said while the reality is that there are people who are racist, "there are farmers who are patriots in our country who need safety and support from the police". AgriSA president Dan Kriek told News24 that farm attacks and their brutality must be strongly condemned by all South Africans. "It has long been time for the public and the government to take note of the brutality of farm attacks, as well as the onslaught aimed at members of the farming community," Kriek said.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  