Mugabe’s Cabinet reshuffle likely to 'negatively impact economy' - expert Cape Town – President Robert Mugabe's recent reassignment of Patrick Chinamasa from the finance portfolio is "going to undermine the country's re-engagement strategy with the international community" and have a negative impact on the country's economy, says a senior researcher at the Institute for Security Studies. In an interview with News24, Derek Matyszak said that this was likely also aimed at clipping the wings of Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa who, until recently, was seen as the front runner in replacing Mugabe. He added that Mnangagwa was the driving force behind the re-engagement with the international community as he was positioning himself as a reformist.  Read more on this story here  Activist arrested for calling Mugabe 'dead man walking' Harare - A Zimbabwean activist has been arrested after calling 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe "a dead man walking", lawyers said on Wednesday, in the latest case of authorities cracking down on dissent. Sten Zvorwadza, the leader of a street vendor's union, was charged with insulting or undermining the president in a press interview where he was also quoted as saying that Mugabe was "old" and "day-dreaming". Zvorwadza is a prominent anti-Mugabe campaigner who has led several demonstrations calling on the veteran leader to step down. For more on this story click here  'We’ll nail those who do mischief': Mugabe on social media 'abuse' Harare - President Robert Mugabe's spokesperson says the president set up a brand new ministry dedicated to cyber security in order to "nail" those causing "mischief" on the internet. "I want to give these words from the president. He said that the [Cyber Security] ministry… will help us in nailing those who do mischief using cyber space," presidential spokesperson George Charamba told reporters at State House on Tuesday. For more on this story click here  Nigerian courts remand 300 Boko Haram suspects Kano - Nigeria officially remanded 300 Boko Haram suspects on Tuesday as hearings got under way in the first mass trials linked to the Islamist insurgency. The media has been banned on security grounds from attending proceedings at four civilian courts set up in a military base in Kainji, in central Niger state. But the justice ministry said in an emailed statement that three separate cases, each involving 100 defendants, were heard in three of the courts. For more on this story click here  PICS: Angry protests as Kenya election officials mull next move Nairobi - Kenyan police fired teargas at opposition protesters who burned tyres and lobbed stones, a day after their leader Raila Odinga announced his withdrawal from the presidential race, plunging the country into uncharted waters. As poll officials mulled their next move, opinions were split on what the veteran opposition leader's move could mean for a dramatic election saga that saw President Uhuru Kenyatta's August 8 victory annulled by the Supreme Court in a first for Africa. Kenyatta insists an October 26 do-over must go ahead, though his longtime rival Odinga says his withdrawal legally forces election officials to begin the entire process from scratch, leaving more time for his reform demands to be met. Read more on this story here  'No one owns Zanu-PF,' war veterans remind Mugabe Harare – Zimbabwe’s ex-freedom fighters have reportedly described President Robert Mugabeand his wife Grace as being "misguided", following attacks on Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa.  The Mugabes recently launched scathing attacks on Mnangagwa, accusing him of fanning factionalism within the ruling Zanu-PF party, said reports. First to fire a salvo at Mnangagwa in front of thousands of party loyalists who gathered at Chipadze Stadium for the 8th Presidential Youth Interface rally was the first lady, who challenged the vice president to rein in his supporters. She accused him of insulting the presidency in his quest to succeed her husband. Read more on this story here  Zim’s new cyber security minister not on social media – report Harare - The cabinet minister charged with protecting Zimbabwe against cyber attacks doesn’t use social media, it emerged on Wednesday. Patrick Chinamasa was given charge over the newly-created ministry of cyber security, threat detection and mitigation by President Robert Mugabe on Monday. IT news website Techzim said it had phoned up the minister, and he had confirmed to them that five Facebook pages in the minister’s name weren't in fact his. For more on this story click here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  