Caryn Dolley The scene on Thursday night outside the hospital where Jerome 'Donkie' Booysen is admitted. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Figures linked to the underworld nightclub security industry expect major retaliation attacks in Cape Town and have heightened their security after men got into the hospital where wounded alleged Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen is recovering, to apparently try and attack him. Sources with close knowledge of the matter on Friday confirmed to News24 that several of those linked to what happened had boosted their security measures as a result of recent shootings and attacks. News24 understands this includes making use of extra armed bodyguards. At least one visibly armed man, apparently there as a measure of protection, was spotted on Thursday evening outside the hospital where Booysen was admitted. News24 understands several other armed men were also present, to apparently protect certain individuals at the scene. For a detailed breakdown on what has been happening in the underworld, see News24's showcase: Underworld Unmasked If some sources' suspicions are true and Booysen was targeted in hospital by men intent on killing him, it will be the fourth time in about six months that there has been an attempt on his life. News24 is not providing Booysen's exact location for security reasons. READ: 'Fight' at hospital where wounded Jerome 'Donkie' Booysen is admitted Booysen was wounded four times in a shooting at Cape Town International Airport early on Wednesday. A second man was also wounded in the incident. On Thursday night, police said the scene was still active and no official comment on the matter was provided. 'In disguise' Sources say that on Thursday evening a suspect, dressed as a woman and with his lips painted red, got into the hospital where Booysen was, but was caught before anything happened. A source has claimed this man is an alleged member of the 27s gang. They say another suspect, who had been dressed in a white pants and jacket to apparently try and blend in as a doctor, managed to escape. A stolen vehicle, a white Renault, was apparently also found outside the building.  According to the sources, Booysen and someone with very close ties to him had been the targets of what they described as an attempted attack. Controversial businessman Nafiz Modack, as well as several other men, were at the scene late on Thursday. It is understood Modack was called for assistance by the man closely linked to Booysen. Modack has been heading a group of men intent on taking over nightclub security from a more established grouping. This takeover has resulted in several violent incidents. ALSO READ: EXCLUSIVE: People want me dead because of my security industry connections – underworld figure Modack Booysen had previously been involved in a nightclub security company, Specialised Protection Services (SPS), which had catered to the majority of establishments around Cape Town. Specialised Protection Services, which started operating in 2012, was run by, among others, Booysen, and businessmen André Naude and Mark Lifman. However, it was shut down as it was not registered with the necessary private security regulator, as required by law. 'Murder suspect' Sources have told News24 that one of the reasons Booysen has been repeatedly targeted, was because of his alleged involvement in the murder of bouncer kingpin Cyril Beeka. Modack was close to Beeka. Beeka was murdered in Bellville South on March 21, 2011 as he was being driven in the area. No arrests were made in that case. At the time of the shooting, Beeka was being driven by Serbian fugitive Dobrosav Gavric, who was wounded in the incident and who has been detained since shortly after the shooting pending court matters. Five years ago in a court case relating to Gavric, an investigating officer had testified that Booysen was the head of the Sexy Boys gang and was a suspect in Beeka's murder. However, nothing ever came of this. 'Retaliation' Well-placed sources have also said that Booysen's shooting at the Cape Town International Airport on Wednesday was revenge for a murder that happened in a Stellenbosch nightclub last Saturday. ALSO READ: Cape Town airport hit on alleged gang boss could be revenge for Stellenbosch club killing Donovan Jacobs, 40, who they said was a 28s gang member, was shot dead in the Stellenbosch Cubana in Plein Street. Nicole Muller, 30, a mother of two young boys who was at club to celebrate a friend’s birthday, was also killed in the attack. A third person was wounded. Over the course of about seven months, four other innocent people have been wounded in other underworld shootings involving Cape Town venues. Gang battles Sources say there has recently been fighting among the numbers gangs – the 26s, 27s and 28s. The Sexy Boys gang is said to work with the 26s gang. The numbers gangs are linked to underworld figures who are said to be involved in the nightclub security scene. Modack has previously denied any affiliation to a gang. Some sources say rival 27s gangsters have been targeting the 28s, as well as the 26s. But a source with close knowledge of the situation claimed there had recently been shifts in these gangs. A prominent member of the 26s and Sexy Boys gang is said to have been ousted and then apparently went on to become a 27s gang member. Shootings In previous high-profile shootings, Booysen was shot at while he was in a vehicle in Bellville South on September 13. He was not wounded. On July 6, alleged 28s gang boss Ralph Stanfield was wounded in a drive-by shooting in Melrose, Johannesburg. Booysen was wounded in a shooting on May 8, while apparently on his way to see Deon Williams, linked to the 26s and better known as Igor, who was shot dead in Ravensmead. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. South Africa  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  