Paul Herman President Jacob Zuma. (File) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - President Jacob Zuma has appointed three new members to the Media Development and Diversity Agency (MDDA) board, and four members to the Commission for Gender Equality. It's been a busy week for Zuma, after also approving the appointments of the long-overdue SABC board, and reshuffling his Cabinet for the second time this year, both on Tuesday. On Friday, three new members will take up positions at the MDDA amid controversy at the agency, including former ANCYL leader Ronald Lamola, as well as Martina Della-Togna and Nombeko Mbava.  Opposition parties have raised concerns yet again about the political connections of some of the appointees, especially Lamola. - Read more: Media agency likened to SABC, inquiry in sight Lamola is currently a member of the finance committee in the Tshwane University of Technology, while Della-Tonga is a former multimedia manager in Parliament. Mbava is already a board member of the South Africa Monitoring and Evaluation Association. Last week, the portfolio committee on communications said it would be probing the MDDA, after it emerged that MDDA chairperson Phelisa Nkomo had also acted as the agency's CEO, in spite of her statements to the contrary. Then communications minister Ayanda Dlodlo said Nkomo "was read the riot act" after it emerged she was still CEO, undermining then CEO Donald Liphoko, who had tried to block the approval of "dodgy" contracts at the agency, MPs heard. -Read more: Dodgy contracts at 'rotten' media agency Dlodlo has since been reshuffled to the Home Affairs ministry. Zuma also announced the appointment of four members to the Commission for Gender Equality on Friday "The president has appointed Ms Tamara Eugenia Mathebula, Mr Sediko Daniel Rakolote, and Ms Nthabiseng Sepanya Mogale as part-time members as well as Ms Nthabiseng Moleko as a full-time member of the Commission," a statement read. "The president has also designated Ms Lulama Nare as the chairperson of the Commission for Gender Equality with immediate effect until 31 March, 2019." Zuma wished all appointees of both boards well in their appointments. Zuma has yet to announce the establishment of a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as ordered by former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela 12 months ago, despite Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa's assurances on Thursday in Parliament that it would be "soon". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  