Nation Nyoka (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Writer and activist Sisonke Msimang was joined by large crowd of excited readers, family and friends at the launch of memoir, ‘Always Another Country’, at Exclusive Books in Rosebank Mall on Thursday evening. 
WATCH Johannesburg – A mother of two minor boys, who were allegedly raped and sexually assaulted by their paternal grandparents and underage cousin, has shared her frustration at the delay in justice for her sons, saying her children do not have closure and cannot heal. The case was postponed by the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court in Johannesburg to November 10 pending the psychiatric report confirming the mental capacity of the third accused – the underage cousin. This is the tenth postponement in the case. None of the accused are in custody. "I still can't say to my sons that this is over. They have, for [most] of their lives, had to go through things that no child has ever had to go through from people that we honestly trusted with everything, loved with everything and they were just totally let down, they were almost destroyed," the mother told News24, as her eyes welled up with tears. Her two boys, now aged five and seven, first disclosed the rape to her and her husband in 2016 when her youngest son had just turned four. From the time the children were infants, they would be dropped off and later picked up from their grandparents' home in Alberton. According to Women and Men Against Child Abuse's Miranda Jordan, the younger boy was initially allegedly sexually abused by his cousin, then later the older boy was also allegedly raped by his cousin, then his grandfather and grandmother. Children 'playing games they shouldn't be playing' The emotional woman said her children were battling with what happened to them every day. She said she was heartbroken as she could see that what they had endured since they were aged two and four had affected them psychologically, emotionally and socially. "Our little one has had to be kept behind [at school], and I think it's the pressure of everything that is happening now. The older one failed term two. The time when he had to come and speak to the prosecutors here, he was terrified. "They have constant issues at school where they [display] inappropriate behaviour... like exposure, wanting to play games that they shouldn't be playing," she said as she sniffled. The young woman asked not to be named for fear of being identified. She and her husband are in the process of changing their surname in order to distance themselves from the family she calls "monsters". The children now refer to their paternal grandparents and cousin as "the ugly family", she said. She told News24 they had withdrawn their protection order against her husband's family as they had received no support from the state. "We asked the senior prosecutor at this court about three months ago to give us a letter for witness protection to take to home affairs, but we have not heard back from the senior prosecutor. We want to protect our identity and that of our children," she said. Ripple effect She said the postponement would take another year from her children's lives. "These little kids just want to hear that it's finished, we as parents just want to hear that it's finished. We won't stop until justice is served, and until this thing is over. We will carry on and we will fight for our kids," she said as tears rolled down her face. Jordan explained that cases such as this one usually have a ripple effect on the children's lives as well as their family's. "Parents often have no idea what they will be going through. This case started in January 2016, we have come to the end of October 2017 and the trial hasn't even started, so there's a long road ahead. This has effects on the family who now have to explain why the children have to miss school, have to explain why they can't be at work and so on," she said. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  