
        A divided Kenya is voting in a bitterly disputed presidential re-run that has sparked fears both at home and abroad for the stability of the east African powerhouse. Follow the live updates 
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 AP reports: Kenyan police say one man shot by police during violent protests against the repeat presidential election has died at a hospital. The shooting occurred in the city of Kisumu, an opposition stronghold. Three other people were admitted to a hospital with gunshot wounds. An Associated Press journalist in Kisumu saw ambulances transporting several people from the protests. BBC reports that live bullets have been fired in Kisumu, western Kenya. Two people have been wounded - both have had gunshots to the thigh.One of the injured is a 15-year-old boy and the other is a 21-year-old man.They are both being treated in hospital, the report says.  According to BBC: Kenya's vice president William Ruto has said that he was not impressed by the opposition threat to start civil disobedience to push for reforms.  Ruto said this shortly after casting his vote at his home constituency in Uasin Gishu county. "We are a country governed by rules. Anybody who tells us now that this is [going to change] is simply not telling us anything positive.  "All attempts to create civil disobedience and disorder in Kenya will not succeed," Ruto was quoted as saying. Let's respect the wishes of everyone: those who are voting and those who don't want to. pic.twitter.com/Fth0vK83Hz Opposition
leader Raila Odinga says the opposition will press for what it deems credible
elections after boycotting Thursday's repeat presidential election because of
what it says is a lack of adequate reforms to the electoral commission. Odinga's challenge to the
August elections, which were won by President Uhuru Kenyatta, led the Supreme
Court to annul those results, citing illegalities, and order a repeat election.

Now Odinga is urging a
boycott of Thursday's elections. Odinga said Wednesday that the opposition
coalition, National Super Alliance, will become a resistance movement.
 A statement from Odinga on Thursday
says his movement will constitute a "People's Assembly to guide the
country to a fresh free and fair presidential election" as part of its
peaceful resistance. Odinga says the resistance
will also include boycotting goods and services by those who have supported
Kenyatta's "lawless grab of the presidency". He
says Kenyatta's push for an election, despite concerns overs its credibility
even from the electoral commission's chief, is due to the fact that he had
alienated many voters and could only win an election unfairly. Kenyatta is the leading
candidate in Thursday's election. Six other candidates on the ballot got less
than 1% in the nullified election in August. - AP For the love of our country. An elderly parent is helped by his son  to the polling station. #KenyaElection #KenyaDecides #KenyaPoll pic.twitter.com/G2kYpmOZuu Fires being lit on Huruma Rd, Mathare. Tense here, police firing teargas, people throwing stones. #KenyaElections #Kenya pic.twitter.com/qZn3pPOfl1 President Uhuru Kenyatta casts his ballot in Gatundu #KenyaElections #Kivumbi2017 pic.twitter.com/xNnihTLcvq In comes the heavy armour... Kibera, Nairobi. #KenyaElections pic.twitter.com/QuQBtOMq1X Kenyatta: We cannot achieve our goals if we continue with tribal politics. We should be a nation that is led by issues #KenyaDecides ^Rw pic.twitter.com/UoAP6kDEtS #ElectionBoycottKE raila has just casted his ballot at Olympic primary kibera #KenyaDecides #KenyaVotes2017 pic.twitter.com/CMAOd5FB6e Uhuru Kenyatta: It will be my duty if elected to bring Kenyans together#Kivumbi2017 pic.twitter.com/8V19zfE8Je Uhuru Kenyatta: What we have is problem of tribalism#Kivumbi2017 pic.twitter.com/s1SmIf9Y1F Water canons and chopper. Kbera, Nairobi. #KenyaElections pic.twitter.com/MmjZDl7gSH President Uhuru Kenyatta has reportedly said that 90% of the country is calm, peaceful and voting. He added: "Let us allow each other to exercise our right. Kenya has proved that our democracy is mature."- KTN Uhuru:90% of the country is calm,peaceful and voting#KenyaElections #Kivumbi2017 pic.twitter.com/84sjPNx4NZ The decision to
cancel the August poll over irregularities in the electronic transmission of
votes was initially hailed as an opportunity to deepen democracy in a country
plagued by disputed elections.
 But the re-run has
been dogged by chaos and acrimony, prompting top diplomats to blast Odinga and
Kenyatta for fuelling division instead of seeking a path to a free and fair
election in the country of 48 million people.
 Myriad legal
battles failed to block the vote from going forward, with a final petition in
front of the Supreme Court failing on the eve of the election as only two out
of seven judges showed up.
 The European Union
observer mission, which like other foreign teams has limited its work due to
security fears, said the poll's credibility had been "undermined" by
the inability of the court to reach a quorum. A statement signed
by 15 foreign envoys representing the United States, the United Kingdom and
several European countries, expressed disappointment that Kenya had not
"come together to hold a better election".
 "We are deeply
disappointed by the continuing efforts of both parties to interfere with and
undermine the independent operation of the electoral commission, the judiciary,
and other essential institutions," the statement said. Isolated incidents
in Kisumu, nearby Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori saw protesters block roads and
polling stations, clashing with police who tried to disperse them. With eight
candidates in the running, the vote was meant to be a final showdown between
Kenyatta and Odinga, whose families have been locked in political rivalry for
more than half a century. However, Odinga
urged his supporters to "stay at home" and avoid security forces. Opposition protests
since the August election have resulted in at least 40 deaths, mostly at the
hands of police and in poor opposition strongholds, according to rights groups.

 The 72-year-old
Odinga, who has lost three previous elections claiming fraud in two of them,
said his coalition would transform into "a resistance movement".
 NASA will
"embark on a national campaign of defiance of illegitimate governmental
authority and non-cooperation with all its organs," he declared. Despite the call
for a boycott, one Odinga supporter Joshua Nyamori, 42, hoped to vote at the
Kenyatta Sports Ground but found no polling material or officials. "Even if 500 000
do not want to vote, polling stations should be open, even for the 10 people
who want to vote," he said. "I am
concerned because not all people are staying home by choice, some people are
afraid of being attacked," he said.
 In his view, the
decision of the opposition coalition National Super Alliance (NASA) not to take
part in the vote was a "political mistake". In Odinga's western
stronghold of Kisumu, several polling stations remained closed, with one
chained and locked. Ballot boxes and
electronic kits to identify voters and transmit results had not arrived in
polling stations, with some officials facing attacks from opposition supporters
while trying to deliver voting material. "So far, we
have not deployed any material, and we have not deployed election officials.
The reason is security," said returning officer John Ngutai. "We hope to be
able to deploy later in the day. We hope for the best but prepare for the
worst. The worst would be no election officials." The election is the
chaotic climax of a political drama that began when the Supreme Court
overturned the victory of President Uhuru Kenyatta in the August 8 elections. It cited
"irregularities" and mismanagement by the Independent Electoral and
Boundaries Commission (IEBC). Kenyatta, who turns
56 on Thursday, is almost assured victory after veteran opposition leader
Odinga withdrew, citing fears the poll would be marred by the same flaws which
saw the August vote overturned.
 The boycott in east
Africa's richest economy and one of its strongest democracies is likely to tarnish
the credibility of Kenyatta's victory and deepen its worst political crisis
since a 2007 election sparked politically driven ethnic violence that left 1 100
dead. Here is what has happened so far according to AFP Kenyans trickled
into polling stations on Thursday for a repeat election that has polarised the
nation with some clashes breaking out as supporters of opposition leader Raila
Odinga ignored his call to stay away and tried to block voting. In stark contrast
to the first ballot in August, which was annulled by the Supreme Court, only a
handful of voters could be seen at many polling stations in an election likely
to face more legal battles after its conclusion. In opposition
strongholds in the slums of Nairobi and the west of the country, protesters
barricaded roads and polling stations, lobbing rocks at police who fired
teargas to disperse them.
 On a grey and
drizzly morning, only 50 people stood on the boggy grass outside the Redeemed
Gospel Church polling station in Nairobi's Mathare slum, where more than 8 000
people are registered to vote. "It is my duty
to vote. Last time the queue was all around the block and I waited six hours to
vote, this time the people are few," said taxi driver David Njeru, 26, as
he waited to cast his ballot. But why are people not turning up to vote in the presidential election? This is what BBC got: "Some people are taking their time, looking at what the situation will be, before they come and vote." "Even those who want to vote do not get the chance to vote...People are stopping others from getting to polling stations. They have lit bonfires in the middle of roads on the way to polling stations. "The rain has started pouring down heavily, which may have started sending people home." Bus carrying  polling materials in Kitui gets involved in a road accident #KenyaDecides ^GI pic.twitter.com/wigxk71VOI Deputy President William Ruto cast his vote at Kosachei Primary school, Turbo #KenyaDecides @KBCChannel1 pic.twitter.com/cthQcnCsZO Kenyan
police have  fired tear gas at
stone-throwing protesters in some opposition areas after the start of Kenya's
second presidential election since August, reflecting bitter divisions in a
country whose main opposition leader urged his followers to boycott the vote. Violence erupted in Nairobi's
Kibera slum and Kisumu, a major city in western Kenya where protesters set
fires and blocked roads, and many polling stations didn't open because of
security concerns.  One Kisumu primary school that saw huge lines of voters when
it served as a polling station in Kenya's Aug. 8 election was closed this time
around, its gates locked.
 "We are not going to
vote and we are not going to allow it," said Olga Onyanga, an opposition
supporter in Kisumu.
 Voting, meanwhile, proceeded
in areas where President Uhuru Kenyatta has support, but fewer voters were
turning out in comparison to the August election that the Supreme Court
nullified because it found illegalities and irregularities in the election
process. - AP Tear gas has been fired as polls open in Kenya's presidential election re-run. @kileysky has more from Nairobi pic.twitter.com/l6xlFnT2v5 Sky News reports that police used tear gas to disperse angry mobs in Kibera, a slum in the capital Nairobi, and in Kisumu, Kenya's third biggest city and an opposition stronghold. The report says that protesters barricaded the entrances to polling stations and hurled rocks at security forces in some parts of the country. Meanwhile, some polling stations remain locked and chained as officials cite fear of violence for the failure to deliver voting equipment.  Kenya's electoral board, the IEBC, has promised to grant extra time to polling stations that opened late for the presidential rerun. "A few opened late due to logistical challenges. They [will] get time compensation after 5pm," the commission wrote on Twitter. It however, noted that voting started at 06:00 at most of polling stations. Closing time is 17:00. - The Star reports A voter at Kanyuambora who just cast her vote #KenyaDecides ^BN pic.twitter.com/zL52V9vplI Youth in Obekai, Teso South ferry bees in sacks, in readiness for demos.#KenyaDecides #KenyaPoll #KenyaElections pic.twitter.com/JsmC24tuNF Protests reported in various parts of Kisumu. No distribution of election materials yet as protesters blocked roads. #KenyaElections pic.twitter.com/r8zW1jy7Ph Stranded voters in Kitui central, they however say they will stay put until voting materials arrive #KenyaDecides @KBCChannel1 pic.twitter.com/P8S0wOur1B Empty polling station in Kisumu. Polling clerks and Presiding officers fail to turn up for the polls #KenyaDecides #KenyaElections pic.twitter.com/Uu6iNfcOPU Slow voting day at Kibra Social Ground polling station, officials drinking tea and eating sandwiches. #KenyaElections pic.twitter.com/sJdgMAS7g7 #Kenyadecides A tale of two elections: same polling station, same time, slightly different weather, and very different political backdrop. pic.twitter.com/4gwd3y7dsJ #Kenyadecides A tale of two elections: same polling station, same time, slightly different weather, and very different political backdrop. pic.twitter.com/4gwd3y7dsJ Long cues and huge voter turn out witnessed in Nyeri, Gatundu and parts of Eldorate #KenyaDecides #KenyaPollEve #KenyaElections pic.twitter.com/QkhdbMj3Kq #KenyaDecides Independent presidential candidate Joe Nyaga cast his vote at JN mwonge pollig station ^tw pic.twitter.com/Xq9oCjGO5f The United States says it is deeply concerned about Kenya's repeat election and the efforts of "both parties to interfere with and undermine the independent operation of the electoral commission, the judiciary and other essential institutions. "A state department statement urges Kenyans to remain calm and reject violence, and it condemns Tuesday's shooting of the driver for the Supreme Court's deputy chief justice. Kenya's opposition leader has called on supporters to boycott the vote, and the president says security forces will be deployed nationwide to prevent what he calls a slide into anarchy. The US statement says that "now is not the time for strife to divide Kenya. - AP #KenyaDecides The ongoing peaceful voting at St Theresa Primary School in Mathare Constituency Kibera #KenyaPoll pic.twitter.com/uRRnSUEH6h Mombasa,Hassan Omar's People ????????????????????????#KenyaPollEve #KenyaDecides pic.twitter.com/6IV3knega3 Mutomo Primary School in Gatundu #KenyaDecides @KBCChannel1 pic.twitter.com/jGmHlHzF1s Situation at Kimbo primary school, Ruiru #KenyaDecides @KBCChannel1 pic.twitter.com/jdhl69EnJY Polls open in a repeat presidential election in #Kenya that is mired in uncertainty as opposition leader #RailaOdinga calls on his supporters to boycott the vote.@UKenyatta @RailaOdinga #NASA #KENYAELECTIONS pic.twitter.com/marqZ8YbHc 
                Jump to
                top
            