Pam Magwaza PHOTO: Supplied to YOU by Margret Muchemwa  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	      A Roodepoort woman walking home from work was terrified when she suddenly went into labour. Margret Muchemwa told YOU she was on her way home on Monday when she suddenly felt contractions, even though she had felt fine throughout the day. “I wasn’t expecting my baby until 29 November,” the 30-year-old nanny said. “I started feeling pain around 2 pm but it wasn’t anything serious.” It was when she was on her way to the taxi rank when the pain began escalating and she felt water running down her leg. “A lady behind me asked me if I was okay and I told her that I am pregnant and she and some other women gathered around to help me.” The nanny was eventually paralysed with pain on the side of CR Swart Road. Read more: Hero security guard helps school girl give birth Fortunately, Denver Ramnarain from Quick Response Service (QRS) paramedics and his team were passing by just then and noticed something was amiss.  “We saw the crowd of people and we stopped to investigate to see if we could help with anything.” “When the crowd moved away we saw that a woman was on her back and she was delivering her baby right there and then,” said Denver.  The paramedics sprang into action and helped deliver Margaret’s baby boy. “We stabilised the baby while an ambulance was being called.” “A nearby doctor was called through and he made sure that both mother and child were fine and healthy.” Margaret and her son were then taken to hospital. Denver added, “It was the community and their selfless behaviour that reigned as the clear winner on Monday.” “They all worked together to assist this woman in her time of need. My crew Nikita De Beer and Ezrom Mataboge were instrumental in making sure the medical side was taken care off but all credit should go to the people who helped from the community.”  Margaret’s employer Eulene Duncan was shocked to hear what had happened because Margaret seemed fine on that day. “She was working fine, watching the kids and she seemed extremely happy,” “She did, however, ask to go home a little earlier because she said she was feeling tired but she had no labour pains at all.” After hearing the news that her nanny had given birth, Eulene asked the community to donate baby supplies, as Margaret was not expecting her baby until the end of November. “Since then so many things have been donated to her, she now has nappies, a pram and clothes up until the baby is six months old,” said Eulene. Margret – who named her little one Noah – said that she would like to thank everyone for helping her in her time of need. “This world needs more people like the people who helped me. God bless you all.”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  