Caryn Dolley Hawks. (Theana Breugem, Media24, file) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - A fourth suspect has been traced and detained by the Hawks for a shooting which unfolded at a Camps Bay establishment in April, an incident linked to the underworld nightclub security industry.And a source with close knowledge of the matter says more arrests are expected.Several suspects have been taken into custody recently for underworld-related matters which have been carried out in Cape Town.It is understood that investigators are managing to unravel an intricate network of illicit activities and relationships.In some of the latest incidents, alleged Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen was wounded in the Cape Town International Airport last Wednesday.And on October 14 alleged 28s gang member Donovan Jacobs, 40, and patron Nicole Muller, 30, were murdered in a Stellenbosch nightclub. For a detailed breakdown on underworld activities in Cape Town visit News24’s showcase: Underworld Unmasked In the Camps Bay incident, two patrons were wounded in Cafe Caprice on April 17. Western Cape Hawks spokesperson Lloyd Ramovha on Tuesday confirmed to News24 the latest arrest in the matter. The suspect, Anthony van der Watt, 32, of Mitchells Plain, appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. He is expected back in the dock in November. Earlier this month two suspects were taken into custody. And on September 29, Jordan Fabe, 25, was arrested for his alleged role in the shooting. READ: Third arrest in Camps Bay shooting as Hawks underworld crackdown continues In an exclusive interview with News24 in September, controversial businessman Nafiz Modack said he was the intended target of the Cafe Caprice shooting. "That particular day, we were supposed to have a meeting there. At the last minute, I cancelled," he had said. READ ALSO: People want me dead because of my security industry connections – underworld figure Modack Underworld violence started surging in Cape Town late last year when a new grouping, headed by Modack, started taking control of nightclub security from a more established grouping. The takeover sparked violence and several shootings. News24 understands that various gangs linked to the nightclub security industry are fighting. Sources said Booysen was shot at the Cape Town International Airport last Wednesday in retaliation for the murder of Jacobs in the Cubana in Plein Street, Stellenbosch, the weekend before. READ ALSO: 'Fight' at hospital where wounded Jerome 'Donkie' Booysen is admitted Last Thursday two men apparently again tried to target Booysen in the hospital where he was admitted. One, who had apparently been disguised as a woman, was arrested. A stolen vehicle was also found at the scene. Booysen was previously targeted. On September 13 he was shot at while he was in a vehicle in Bellville South. He was not wounded.Booysen was wounded in a shooting on May 8 in Elsies River.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  