Alex Mitchley  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria – An undercover probe into fake licence disks led to the closure of an internet café in Tshwane’s CBD and the arrest of two people on Friday.  Road Traffic Management Corporation (RMTC) spokesperson Simon Zwane said the café appeared on their radar two weeks ago after they received a tip-off that fake vehicle licence disks were being printed and sold there.  It is not the only café that the corporation has been looking into, Zwane said.  During the operation, undercover officials were told that documentation could be arranged for them in exchange for cash.  Zwane did not divulge the amount of cash requested.  The café was raided and four computers, as well as documentation, were seized. "We received a tip-off and our agents did a follow-up investigation, and they were promised that they can get documents here if they bring a certain amount of money and certain information," said Zwane.  "They said they can do it, but the person that prints is not around at the moment." News24 was present at the raid and saw dozens of documents, including vehicle registration certificates and vehicle licence disks.  'Operation Domino'  One of the men claimed he was registered to help people with vehicle registration and that his business was above board. He became agitated and irate when he realised that he would be arrested. The second man, who works at the internet café, also told officials that he had no idea what they were talking about.  "This forms part of Operation Domino, which we have been operating to try and get rid of unroadworthy vehicles.  We are now in pre-festive season mode where we are intensifying these operations so that we remove as many causes of accidents as possible from the roads," said Zwane.  "We know that corruption and unroadworthy vehicles play a critical role in the numbers of people that die on our roads every year." Zwane added that there were more internet cafés and licencing centres on the corporation’s radar. Once investigations have been finalised, the RTMC intends to pounce and shut them down.  The men, who were arrested, are expected to appear in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday for charges of fraud.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  