Opposition supporters demonstrate in Nairobi, Kenya. (Khalil Senosi, AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Nairobi - Kenyan police on Thursday fired tear gas at stone-throwing protesters in some opposition areas during the second presidential election since August, reflecting bitter divisions in a country whose main opposition leader urged his followers to boycott the vote. Violence erupted in Nairobi's Kibera slum and Kisumu, a major city in the west where protesters set fires and blocked roads, and many polling stations didn't open because of security concerns. One Kisumu primary school that saw huge lines of voters when it served as a polling station in the August 8 election was closed this time around, its gates locked. "We are not going to vote and we are not going to allow it," said Olga Onyanga, an opposition supporter in Kisumu. Voting, meanwhile, proceeded in areas where President Uhuru Kenyatta has support, but fewer voters were turning out in comparison to the August election that the Supreme Court nullified because it found illegalities and irregularities in the election process. After voting, Kenyatta said 90% of the country was calm and said Kenya must remove ethnic loyalties from its politics in order to succeed. The president, who was declared the winner in August with 54% of the vote, had said security forces would be deployed nationwide to ensure order on Thursday, and he urged Kenyans to vote while respecting the rights of those who didn't. Voters lined up before dawn at a polling station in Kenyatta's hometown of Gatundu and electoral workers prepared ballot papers by flashlight after heavy rains knocked out power to the site. "Our hope for the country is that whoever emerges the winner will be able to unite the country, which is already torn apart by politicians and politics of the day," said Simon Wambirio, a Gatundu resident.                        A protester brandishing a machete and a knife prepares to
take cover from incoming tear gas canisters during clashes with police forces
in Kibera, Nairobi. (Marco Longari, AFP) Opposition leader Raila Odinga, who got nearly 45% of the vote in August, has said the new election won't be credible because of a lack of electoral reform and accused Kenyatta of moving a country known for relative stability and openness toward authoritarian rule. Odinga's call for a boycott resonated strongly in Kisumu, Kenya's third-largest city and an opposition stronghold. He has urged followers to stay away from polling stations because of concerns about a crackdown by security forces. Human rights groups said police killed at least 67 people during protests after the August vote; authorities confirmed a smaller number of deaths and said they had to take action against rioters.  A protester splashes himself with water to dissipate the effects from incoming tear gas canisters during stone throwing confrontations with police forces in Kibera, Nairobi. (Marco Longari, AFP) Odinga has said the opposition coalition, National Super Alliance, will become a resistance movement. On Thursday, he said the movement will constitute a "People's Assembly to guide the country to a fresh free and fair presidential election" as part of a peaceful resistance that will include boycotting goods and services by those who have supported Kenyatta's "lawless grab of the presidency."                            Protesters scramble to take cover from incoming tear gas
canisters during stone throwing confrontations with police forces in Kibera,
Nairobi. (Marco Longari, AFP) Odinga and Kenyatta, who seeks a second term, also faced off in a 2013 election similarly marred by opposition allegations of vote-rigging. The opposition leader also ran unsuccessfully in 2007 - ethnic-fueled animosity after that vote killed more than 1 000 people and forced 600 000 from their homes. Many observers say Kenya's ethnic-based politics overshadow the promise of its democracy. Kenyatta is a Kikuyu, while Odinga is a Luo.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  