Protester shot dead in Kenya day after election: police Nairobi - One protester was shot dead in western Kenya on Friday as anger raged a day after an election boycotted by the opposition and marred by violence, taking the death toll to five.  Read more on this story here Kenya election chief delays poll again in the west Nairobi - Kenya's embattled election chief said on Friday he was postponing plans to restage a presidential poll in protest-hit western areas over fears for the safety of his staff. The vote had been scheduled to take place on Saturday in four western counties where election-day violence had prevented most polling stations from opening during Thursday's divisive presidential re-run. "Our job is to provide the necessary infrastructure for voting... and to make sure that Kenyans can exercise that right (to vote). However, when it comes to our staff, when their lives are in danger, as a commission we are deeply concerned," Chebukati said. For more on this story click here  Fugitive scandal casts doubt on Nigeria anti-graft crusade Lagos - Muhammadu Buhari was elected as Nigeria's president on a promise to root out rampant corruption in government that has seen billions of dollars of public money stolen over decades. But since his landmark election win in 2015 he has yet to secure a high-profile conviction for graft while the main opposition accuse him of mounting a political witch-hunt. Now, a growing scandal involving an indicted civil servant has engulfed the presidency, giving Buhari's detractors fresh ammunition and raising questions about his grip on power. Read more on this story here  Uganda charges 2 police over Rwandan refugee's kidnapping Kampala - Two senior Ugandan police officers have been charged over the mysterious kidnapping of a Rwandan refugee who had been a member of his country's presidential guard. Officers Joel Aguma and Nixon Karuhanga appeared before a military court-martial on Friday in Kampala. Aguma leads the police's standards unit and Karuhanga once led a special operations unit. Read more on this story here  Kenyan officials report low turnout in presidential election Nairobi - Kenya's election commission says about 6.5 million people, or one-third of registered voters, went to the polls in a repeat presidential election that was boycotted by the main opposition group. The turnout in Thursday's election was much lower than the nearly 80% of registered voters who participated in an August 8 election that was later nullified by the Supreme Court over irregularities, a decision seen as precedent-setting for Africa. Wafula Chebukati, the election commission chairperson, said late on Thursday the count was based on results from 267 out of Kenya's 290 constituencies. Read more on this story here  'You were right about Grace Mugabe bedroom coup remarks,' war vets say as they apologise to former boss arare – A faction of Zimbabwe's war veterans led by Christopher Mutsvangwa has reportedly apologised to its former boss, Jabulani Sibanda, after it vilified him for claiming that First Lady Grace Mugabe had staged a "bedroom coup". According to NewsDay, the Mutsvangwa-led executive of the Zimbabwe National Liberation War Veterans Association (ZNLWVA) said that they apologised to the ex-freedom fighters' chairperson after  realising that his remarks were "spot-on".   "We want to say we are very sorry about our reactions to his statement. We have realised that when he talked of ‘bedroom coup’ he was spot-on because Grace and the so-called G40 have already usurped power from Zanu-PF. Grace is just a secretary for women affairs. Where does she have the powers to insult her boss, who is the vice secretary for the party?" Nhando reportedly quizzed. For more on this story click here  Son of E Guinea leader gets suspended jail term in Paris graft trial Paris - A French court handed down a three-year suspended jail term on Friday to the son of Equatorial Guinea's leader, Teodorin Obiang, after a landmark graft trial that lifted the lid on his playboy lifestyle. Read more on this story here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  