
        There are closing arguments in the Christopher Panayiotou trial in the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth.
     Follow News24 correspondent Derrick Spies live from the court.  
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Daubermann says he has a trial set down for next week, but
Chetty says he will make arrangements

 
 Court is adjourned to Tuesday October 31 at 09:30

 Chetty: can we deal with it next week.

 

 Price: I can deal with the matter on Tuesday

 Judge Chetty: I will hear you tomorrow morning

 

 Price: There is no way I will be ready by tomorrow. It's 95
pages

 In respect of accused 3 it is my submission that he should
be convicted of murder and aggrevated robbery

 Stander rests It is my respective submission

 
 Accused 1 and 4 should be convicted of the murder

 He goes over it briefly, saying the matter was dealt with extensively in the section 174 application brought by Daubermann 225.    It is my respectful submission that the only inference that can be drawn from the above evidence is that accused 3 was indeed in the Etios during the events of 21 April 2015 and from 7:52 AM on 21 April 2015 he was driving the Etios. 176.    There are certain extractions that clearly illustrate the involvement of accused 1. I wish to draw the Court’s attention to a few examples: CP – Did these guys blit? TS – Which ones? CP – Your friend. TS – Ya, Sizwe. CP – Did they tell anything? TS – No, even them they are on the run. CP – Oh is it?……………. CP – But that’s what I said to you. It became kidnapping and then a murder instead of just making it a robbery outside the house.………….. CP – Yeah I am going to be OK as long as they never know about us Thando. I never ever, I only ever helped you with the gym, I never did anything with you. I’ll sort out your family, you hide low OK.…………    CP – No, these boys made it big. I told you to let them do it outside the house and take the bags and the rings and then they didn’t take the watch or anything.   TS – They just left everything?   CP – They just left everything there. You see, so it looks like a hit now. So they are after me, and that’s why I can’t just meet you in front of people like this Thando.  Stander points out that Panayiotou calls Siyoni on the 29th. Why would he call him? It is very simple. He needs Siyoni to disappear 168.    It is further the undisputed evidence before this Court that at no stage did accused 1 inform the police of his meeting with LS. The high water mark for him is the fact that at 16:23 PM he informed Koen that Siyoni wanted to meet with him. He would in any event not have been able to inform either Koen, during the 16:23 PM conversation, or Eksteen, earlier the afternoon, of the meeting because the venue of the meeting, at that stage, had not been arranged. It was only during the phone call between accused 1 and Siyoni at 17:24 PM where the meeting place was determined. See exhibit BG5 in this regard. The first meeting place at McDonald’s was arranged during the 16:54 PM phone call. See exhibit BG5 pages 43, 44, 46 and 47. See exhibit CP lines 28 and 29. They cellular phone billing of accused 1, exhibit G7, indicates that after 16:54 PM there were no communication between accused 1 and any police official. It is therefore my further submission that accused 1 did not want the police to know about his meeting with Siyoni, or for that matter the content of his conversation with Siyoni. This submission is off course supported by the viseo footage of the meeting in the vehicle showing how accused 1 was searching Siyoni in order to ascertain whether he had a recording device on him. 169.    During his meeting with Eksteen at about 14:00 PM accused 1 blatantly lied to Eksteen when he indicated he does not know why Siyoni was contacting him. The previous evening during call 2 Siyoni told accused 1 that he was in deep trouble and needed to talk. During call 7 Siyoni told accused 1 that the police are after him and that he needs money, just a small amout of about R2,000-00. Later during the same conversation Siyoni indicates he needs about R4,000-00. During call 9 Siyoni informs accused 1 that the police were at his house, he is scared to be arrested and needs money to leave in order to prevent being arrested. At no stage does accused 1 ask why are the police looking for you, that is even after Siyoni informs him “Hey boss you know this thing”. See exhibit BG5. It is my submission that the content of the conversations between accused 1 and Siyoni as set out in exhibit BG5 proves beyond a reasonable doubt the fact that accused 1 is involved in the kidnapping and murder of the deceased. He wanted to conceal his relationship with Siyoni

 

 He had already told Siyoni to destroy the SIM card

 Between the period 30 January 2015 - 5 March 2015 there were
a total of 17 calls made from this number

 

 Why?

 

 Because he wanted to conceal his communication with Siyoni

 Upon scrutinising this cellular phone billing one will note
that with the exception of six calls, all the other calls were made to Siyoni. 

 

 Between the period 5 December 2014 - 20 January 2015 there
were 19 calls, 17 of these calls were made to Siyoni.

 According to Claudio Bertolani a certain Dimitri phoned
accused 1 on 21 April 2015 at about 22:30 PM – 22:45 PM and during that call
accused 1 indicated he was on his way to Njoli Square. Bertlani later met up
with accused 1 and Siyoni, at a point when Siyoni had already been collected by
accused 1. If one were to examine the celluar phone billing of accused 1 it
will be noted that those calls made by Dimitri to the phone of accused 1 was at
23:09 PM.  Accused 1 then went to the OK Grocer and Infinity, locked up and
reset the alarm at 23:36 PM, travelled to the township, and only at 23:50 PM
does he phone Siyoni, at a stage when the cellular phone of accused 1 is
already receiving reception from the Daku Tower. See exhibit G1 page 514 and
515. Accused 1 and Siyoni then travel to Njoli Square, where they wait for
Bertolani and Dimitri to join. They drink cooldrink, eat chips and then accused
1 and Bertolani drive off to go and fetch Derrick Inggs at Kenako Mall. They
then return to Njoli Square where Siyoni was waiting outside the car of accused
1, and then Bertolani leaves, accused 1 drops Siyoni off before he travels to
Uitenhage. At 00:56 AM Siyoni is already dropped off. Record page 3058 – 3060.
What all of this means is Siyoni did nothing, except that after that meeting
with accused 1 Siyoni was in a position to phone Vumazonke to come and collect
his money, and the badgering for payment stopped.

 Read with this the SMS messages.

 

 The man is busy

 
 We will get the money

 
 He has put it in the safe

 

 
                Jump to
                top
            