Lindiwe Sisulu (Picture: Jaco Marais) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – Human Settlements Minister and ANC presidential candidate Lindiwe Sisulu says she believes Khwezi "believed she was raped" by President Jacob Zuma. Sisulu was being interviewed by 702's Eusebius McKaiser on Thursday morning. During the interview, McKaiser asked her what she made of the rape claims made against Zuma by Fezekile Kuzwayo, known during the trial as Khwezi. READ: The real Fezekile 'Khwezi' Kuzwayo as her family knew her "I believe she believed she was raped," Sisulu responded. McKaiser then asked her what she believed. "No, I don't know if I have enough evidence to be able to make a decision on that. "I know both parties firmly believed what they said." The comments have caused quite a stir on Twitter, with #LindiweOnEusebius trending on Thursday morning. Many have taken Sisulu's cryptic answer as an admission of sorts, but others say she dodged the question and avoided answering it. In the broadcast, it was clear Sisulu steered away from taking a direct stance on the merits of the case. On Thursday afternoon, a statement was released on behalf of Sisulu's "It's a must" campaign to explain her position. "Rape, in any form, is the most reprehensible and violent act against any human being and should always be condemned in the strongest terms possible. Comrade Lindiwe Sisulu’s position on rape, as stated numerously on the campaign trail, is well documented," the statement read. It said that the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg had been the final arbiter in the matter. "Comrade Lindiwe’s views on the matter are secondary to the court’s verdict." ALSO READ: 'Nothing new to add' to Mkhize’s Khwezi comments - Presidency Khwezi's story received more attention recently following the release of journalist Redi Thlabi's book on the late Kuzwayo. Nearly 600 people attended its launch. Kuzwayo had spent much of the rape trial against Zuma living in hiding to protect her safety, before leaving the country to live abroad following Zuma's acquittal.  Lindiwe Sisulu "I believe she believes she was rapedHuh? What does that mean? @Radio702 @CapeTalk #LindiweOnEusebius  Kuzwayo's family confirmed in October 2016 that she had died. Her ordeal was pushed back into the public eye after four women protested in her name during the announcement of the 2016 local government elections results. They held up placards during Zuma's scheduled speech at the results centre, before being physically removed from the venue.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  