Pam Magwaza PHOTO: Gallo images/ Getty images 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	       Global online retailer Amazon has come under fire for selling an Oscar Pistorius Halloween costume on their site. An image of the so-called Blade Gunner costume shows a man wearing socks meant to look like prosthetic legs and a green athlete’s kit with a shirt that says “Blade Gunner”. He holds a toy gun in his hand. The costume was priced at £26,10 (R467) by the online retailer and contained a description that read:  “This Paralympic runner costume is sure to cause some controversy at your next event. Includes top, shorts, boot covers and knee pads.” It was immediately taken down by the store after social media users expressed outrage over the costume. One Twitter user dubbed the outfit “the most offensive costume ever.”  Amazon pulls tasteless Oscar Pistorius 'blade gunner' #Halloween costume pic.twitter.com/G63zWGijXx  Wow the 'Blade Gunner' Halloween costume ??Would anyone actually wear this this year? pic.twitter.com/r1SRHJQlFH  Surely the most offensive Halloween costume ever ?? #BLADEGUNNER #Halloween #party #fancydress #Saturday https://t.co/bkuBhQzEqG  It’s going off down here. Blade Gunner. ?? pic.twitter.com/ssF3W2NtxF  An Amazon spokesperson confirmed to The Daily Mail that the costume was no longer available. “Marketplace sellers must follow our selling guidelines and those who don’t will be subject to action including potential removal of their account. The product in question is no longer available.” Oscar was sentenced to six years imprisonment for murder in 2016, after he shot and killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp at his home in Pretoria. The 30-year-old maintained that he believed that she was an intruder throughout his trial. Sources: Twitter, Daily Mail, The Telegraph   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  