Avantika Seeth The incredible crowd at Redi Tlhabi’s launch this week. Picture: Eusebius McKaizer / Twitter 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Guests were literally spilling out of the seating area and flocking to higher levels of Hyde Park Shopping Centre in Johannesburg on Wednesday evening to peer down on the launch of the anticipated book Khwezi: The Remarkable Story of Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo, written by radio personality, journalist and award-winning author Redi Tlhabi. A whopping 700 guests attended the Exclusive Books launch and 400 copies were sold on the night, according to The Reading List website.  City Press’ Nicki Gules said of the book: “If you didn’t believe her then, with hindsight, Fezekile Kuzwayo’s story is eminently believable now.” Collectors’ items As part of the Picador Africa Classics series, the publisher has relaunched a host of titles by African authors, including the iconic 491 Days: Prisoner Number 1323/69, written by veteran ANC activist Winnie Madikizela-Mandela.  Originally published in 2013, the book is based on journal entries penned by Madikizela-Mandela during the 491 days she spent in detention. It includes letters between her and her then husband, former president Nelson Mandela, who was serving the seventh year of what was to be a 27-year-long incarceration at the time.  Madikizela-Mandela recounts her ordeal with absolute honesty, telling of the brutality and fears that she endured in detention while fighting against the apartheid regime for South Africa’s liberation.  Other Picador Africa Classics titles include Eight Days in September by Frank Chikane and Oliver Tambo Remembered, edited by Z Pallo Jordan.  Eight Days in September tells of the eight-day build-up of events in September 2008 that led to the removal of Thabo Mbeki as president. Oliver Tambo Remembered – which was originally published in 2007 to celebrate what would have been Tambo’s 90th birthday – is a compilation of memories by Tambo’s friends and associates.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  