Nation Nyoka Former security branch officer sergeant Joao Jan Rodrigues. (Amanda Khoza, News24.) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Judge Billy Mothle is delivering his judgment in the inquest into the death of anti-apartheid activist Ahmed Timol. Watch the stream above. WATCH Johannesburg – The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has confirmed that it will open three dockets against former security policemen, who gave evidence at the reopened inquest of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol's death, for perjury. Former Sergeant Jan Rodrigues will also face a charge of accessory. Earlier in October, Pretoria High Court’s Judge Billy Mothle overturned a 1972 ruling that Timol had committed suicide by jumping off the 10th floor of what was then known as the John Vorster Police Station, finding that security police had murdered Timol. The case was re-opened after new evidence was discovered around Timol's time of death. "For 46 years, the family has commemorated the loss under a cloud of official lies about the circumstances of his death, and for 46 years, the police involved in murdering and covering up their crime, have evaded responsibility," read a statement from the Timol family. Also read: #TimolInquest: Great victory for the nation - Nkosinathi Biko They expressed their disappointment at the attitude of former security policemen who testified during cross-examination and who opted to stick to their original cover-up lie. "The police who murdered and covered up Ahmed Timol’s death might have contributed to the family’s – and society’s – healing and closure had they admitted to their actions and applied for amnesty to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Instead, most went to their graves with the burdens of their unacknowledged guilt.” Timol, who was also a school teacher, was arrested on October 22 at a roadblock, and murdered at the age of 30 on October 27, exactly 46 years ago. The anti-apartheid activist’s family appealed to former security policemen with knowledge of the deaths of other anti-apartheid detainees to bring closure to families by telling the truth. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  