Mahlatse Mahlase Mzwandile Masina. (Jan Right) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg - Members of ANC Ekurhuleni chairperson Mzwandile Masina's branch have accused him of trying to frustrate the nomination process in a desperate bid to secure Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma's nomination for the party's presidency.   At least three branch members have told News24 that the branch meeting to nominate leaders to be elected at the ANC's December elective conference "collapsed" because the secretary claimed that the branch registry was missing. The registry is crucial in confirming that branch members in good standing attended the meeting and that the meeting met the required quorum. The meeting, which was scheduled for 14:00, started after 17:00 only to be abandoned within minutes. "They could see that they don't have the numbers, then the branch secretary announced the meeting had collapsed because the registry was missing," a branch member who did not want to be named said. Attempts to reach branch secretary Mzwakhe Felani were unsuccessful. Masina, who is also the mayor of Ekurhuleni, has denied any involvement in the meeting. He told News24 he was not in the country at the time and sent his boarding pass for a flight to Mozambique as proof. At least two branch members have confirmed that he was not at the meeting. However, they maintained that Felani was acting on his orders. Ramaphosa supporters 'not invited to meeting' Another branch member claimed that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa had 60 supporters while his rival Dlamini-Zuma had 27. He said with 87 people the meeting met quorum and should have gone ahead. The branch members also claimed that those supporting Ramaphosa were not officially invited to the meeting, but had heard through other sympathetic regional leaders that it was going ahead. The meeting, they claimed, did not appear on the official provincial itinerary indicating schedules for branch general meetings to nominate leaders to be elected at the December elective conference. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa leads Gauteng nominations "I did not get an invite to the branch meeting, which is supposed to happen according to the rules. Many comrades who are known Ramaphosa supporters were not invited. This is wrong," he said. In August, Ekurhuleni regional leaders pronounced that they would support Dlamini-Zuma as a replacement for Zuma. However, the announcement was rejected by ordinary members who marched to the regional offices. They said Masina did not have the branch mandate to pronounce on Dlamini-Zuma as its candidate. "Masina's own branch is pronouncing on CR17 (Ramaphosa). We don't have anything against NDZ (Dlamini-Zuma) but when Zuma came in in 2007, they said as deputy he must succeed (Thabo) Mbeki. Why are they now bringing someone who is not deputy president of party or country?" the branch member asked. Indications are that Ramaphosa is leading the nomination race in Gauteng. He was endorsed by the provincial executive committee to succeed Zuma. The branch members said they planned to write a letter of complaint to the province and national leadership. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  