Frank Chikowore, Correspondent  Grace Mugabe (File: AP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare
– Zimbabwean First Lady Grace Mugabe has reportedly drawn criticism from health
and political activists after she allegedly donated used underwear to Zanu-PF party
supporters in the eastern border city of Mutare. According
to NewsDay, the donation was handed over to the ruling party supporters by
prominent businessman and Chikanga -Dangamvura legislator Esau Mupfumi, who
claimed to have been sent by the controversial First Lady. Mupfumi
reportedly told the activists that the underwear was sourced from Grace. "Recently
I visited the State House and I met the First Lady Grace Mugabe and I was given
these clothes so that I can give you. I have briefs for you and I am told that
most of your briefs are not in good shape, please come and collect your
allocations today. We have nightdresses, sandals and clothes, come and take,
this is from your First Lady Grace Mugabe," the newspaper quoted Mupfumi as
saying The
report also quoted an unnamed beneficiary of the mini-briefs criticising Grace
for taking them as a charity case instead of creating jobs to end unemployment
in the southern African country. "There
are issues which need to be addressed rather than giving us briefs. We do not
have jobs and why is she doing this?" said the Zanu-PF activist. Zimbabwe
has an unemployment rate of more than 85%, according to the country’s umbrella
labour body, the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions, although the government-run
Zimbabwe Statistics Agency puts the figure at 11%.  #gracemugabe donates used underwear. Wld u accept it. pic.twitter.com/rwxwESp1Jo Ahead
of the 2013 elections, President Robert Mugabe promised to create more than 2.2
million jobs for the country’s unemployed youths but he has failed to deliver
on his promise.  Mutare-based
political activist Lynette Mudehwe said Grace's donation was an admission that
most Zimbabweans were suffering at the hands of her husband’s administration. "This
is a clear indication that the First Lady has begun to accept that most
Zimbabweans are suffering; most people can’t afford to buy themselves underwear
because the economy is bad. It is either you buy the underwear from bales of
second-hand clothes or you walk without wearing some underwear," said Mudehwe. Meanwhile,
a public health fellow at Emory University in Atlanta, United States, Doctor
Fortune Nyamande, told News24 that wearing used underwear had its health
repercussions. "Used
underwear have known health risks particularly sexually transmitted infections
such as vaginal candidiasis, gonorrhea, hepatitis and syphilis amongst others.
The use of such clothes can never be encouraged and has negative public health
consequences," said Dr Nyamande who is also the former president of the
Zimbabwe Hospital Doctors Association. Maybe she wore them_ or not!"@maDube_: For the love of her people Grace Mugabe donated used underwear in Mutare. pic.twitter.com/xlP7Sitg6D" 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  