It is up to us parents to stop the vicious cycle of sexual abuse against our daughters at schools. I am writing this column out of frustration and shame on us as parents.  Why do we allow our children to be exposed to the nightmare of rape at schools? The increase in the number of children who are sexually abused at schools is just too high and an issue that we need to take action against now. Many will judge, belittle and even lash at me, but how does parents allow their daughters to go to school in an exceptionally short skirt and expect them to be safe from sexual abuse? We should teach our children to respect themselves and their bodies. The realisation that she has a sexual appeal is a reality for all girls once they reach their teenage years, which is normally when they go to high school. Of course you have to boost their sense of self-confidence, but please also keep in mind that there is an issue of safety involved here. What do you do when you notice that your daughter can hardly bend or sit appropriately in her school skirt?  Do you still allow her to leave the house with it?  We are living in such a sick society. Nowadays, our children tend not to listen to their parents as they have more rights than us. They end up falling prey to boys (and teachers) with only one thing on their mind.  The result is continuous cases of sexual abuse, which should not be the case under such circumstances. I ask myself why the department of education does not intensify dress codes regarding learners’ school uniforms.  That, I believe, will at least protect our beautiful children from harm. Back to the vicious cycle: it is a reality that there are teachers, mostly at high schools, who engage in sexual activities with learners. I repeat, you can lash all you want, but almost all my peers know that it is indeed true.  I for one grew up in an environment where learners were regarded as the “trophy bearers” of the school. Today, some of those learners are married to their former teachers.  Some of these marriages failed. Others gave birth to children out of their relationships. But as far as I remember, no girl ever spoke up during that time, which raises my concern whether we are going to allow our ­daughters to go through the same thing. The danger of it only dawned on me after my close schoolmate was almost forced into a relationship with a teacher that I respected so much. I am raising this after hearing various victims calling into a radio station, admitting that they either fell victim or survived similar incidents at school.  The bottom line here is that these things happen and it is no use for us parents to turn a blind eye. I plead to parents, and especially mothers, to protect our children from vultures.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  