President Robert Gabriel Mugabe addressing the 72nd Session of the United Nations General assembly at the UN headquarters in New York. (File, AFP) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – In today’s top stories Eskom ignored five legal opinions; Energy Minister David Mahlobo met the Senegalese government and was not meeting Russian President Vladimir Putin, his deputy says and Former Gauteng MEC of health Qedani Mahlangu must face Life Esidimeni hearings, say protesters at London School of Economics. #CrimeStats - SA's shocking murder numbers for 2016/17 While there has been a 1.8% overall decrease in crime compared to 2015/16, there was an upward trend in violent crime, with murder up by 1.8%. Watch here and see an infographic here. Crime Stats: Mbalula talks tough, slams 'lazy efforts' by police Police Minister Fikile Mbalula "isn't feeling" the general 1.8% decrease in crime during the 2016/17 financial year, and has yet again warned violent criminals that they will be dealt with in a "proportional response". Read more here. 'Mahlobo in oil talks with Senegal's Sall, not Russia's Putin over nuclear' Energy Minister David Mahlobo was part of President Jacob Zuma’s delegation that met the Senegalese government and was not meeting Russian President Vladimir Putin, as speculated by an MP, his deputy says. Read more here. UCT lectures disrupted, students consider march on Parliament Fire alarms were set off, lectures interrupted and a library evacuated, as an estimated 1 000 University of Cape Town (UCT) students marched on campus  to demand free higher education. Read here. The McKinsey dossier part 6: Five strikes and you're IN Scorpio and amaBhungane can reveal that Eskom ignored five legal opinions, some from within its own ranks, warning the power utility that its contentious “at risk” consulting contract with McKinsey was probably illegal.  Fin24 has the full story here. Mugabe 'would have rejected WHO role': spokesperson Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe did not know he had been appointed World Health Organisation goodwill ambassador and would anyway have rejected the role that has since been rescinded, state media reported. Read more here. Girl, 17, nabbed after more than 1 000 bullets found buried in Cape Town gang hot spot More than a thousand bullets were discovered buried in a yard in Hanover Park, a gang hot spot about 17km outside of the Cape Town city centre. Read here. Ronaldo: I'd have voted for Masuluke's goal Superstar Cristiano Ronaldo would have backed Oscarine Masuluke's goal as his preferred choice for the FIFA Puskas Award despite the goalkeeper eventually losing out to Arsenal's Olivier Giroud. Sport24 has more here. Did Zuma cross Putin? South Africa is facing two or more months of unpredictability and instability even worse than we experienced during the tumultuous late 1980s and early 1990s. Read more from Max du Preez here. Mahlangu must face Life Esidimeni hearings, say protesters at London School of Economics As pressure mounts for former Gauteng MEC of health Qedani Mahlangu to appear at the Life Esidimeni hearings, a group of activists have staged a demonstration outside the London School of Economics where Mahlangu is believed to be studying. Read here.  Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  