
        The two men who forced Victor Mlotshwa into a coffin and threatened to pour petrol over him have been sentenced to 11 and 14 years' effective imprisonment respectively, and their leave to appeal has been dismissed.
       - For the latest updates, follow News24 reporter Jeanette Chabalala: @J_chabalala   
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Court adjourns.   Leave to appeal dismissed.   Judge Mphahlele: "The court clearly took into account the nature of the offences committed, as well as the duration. And an element of mercy was also blended in. This is evidenced by the sentences imposed by this court - some of the sentences were ordered to run concurrently, further part of the sentences were suspended."   Judge Mphahlele elaborates on the motivation for her ruling.  Court resumes.   Judge Mphahlele has just returned to court to deliver judgment on the appeal.  Meanwhile, there is lots of singing and dancing going on outside the court building, in light of the sentences handed down to the coffin assault accused.   Court adjourns.   Molokoane: "What more do we need to prove?"   Advocate Gibbs says the court erred in convicting the men for attempted murder without evidence.   WATCH: Judge sentences coffin assault duo to 11 and 14 years respectively  (via SABC)  SENTENCING SUMMARY:  Accused Number 1  Count 2: Three years imprisonment  Count 3: Three years imprisonment  Count 4: Five years imprisonment  Count 5: Seven years imprisonment  Count 6: Six years imprisonment  Accused Number 2  Count 2: Three years imprisonment (Assault GBH)  Count 3: Three years imprisonment (Assault GBH) (Mlotshwa)  Count 4: Five years imprisonment (Kidnapping)  Count 5: Seven years imprisonment (Attempted murder)  Count 6: Six years imprisonment (Intimidation)  And for defeating the ends of justice: Three years imprisonment   Accused No 1 - 16 years imprisonment, Effectively 11 years direct imprisonment  Accused No 2 - 19 years imprisonment, Effectively 14 years direct imprisonment   Judge Mphahlele: "The conduct of the accused fuels racial tensions."   Judge Mphahlele notes that Mlotshwa testified he is still traumatised after the assault.   Judge: "The complainants were badly assaulted... the most appalling act was to put someone in the coffin."   The judge reminds the court that Victor Mlotshwa was not the first person the accused put into the coffin.   The judge makes reference to the use of the K-word during the assault.   
                Jump to
                top
            