Mxolisi Mngadi iStock 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Four armed men have been caught on camera hijacking a woman in Bedfordview on Sunday evening. The armed men fired two shots at a guard when he tired to intervene. WATCH Durban – Two suspects have been killed during a shootout with police in Inanda, north of Durban, police said on Thursday. Captain Nqobile Gwala said the suspects had been wanted for hijacking and attempted murder over an incident that occurred on Wednesday night. Gwala said the two deceased had shot and injured two men on Harbottle Road in Overport, Durban, before robbing them of their silver BMW. The incident happened at about 18:30. "The two injured victims were transported to hospital for medical treatment. Charges of carjacking and two counts of attempted murder were opened at Mayville police station for further investigation," she said. At about 19:30, the Inanda cluster trio task team spotted the suspicious vehicle in Inanda, she said. "The members gave chase and the suspects fired shots at the police officers. The police returned fire, fatally wounding two suspects. A 21-year-old suspect managed to flee the scene on foot and was later arrested at a clinic in KwaMashu. He was later taken to hospital where he is under police guard," Gwala said. The vehicle that was hijacked in Harbottle Road was recovered. "An unlicensed pistol with three live rounds of ammunition was also recovered. The recovered firearm will be subjected to ballistic testing," Gwala said. Charges of attempted murder, possession of suspected stolen property, possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition are being investigated by Inanda police. Gwala said the Independent Police Investigative Directorate had also been informed about the incident. KwaZulu-Natal acting provincial commissioner Major General Bheki Langa praised the task team for its quick response in recovering the hijacked vehicle and the unlicensed firearm. "We are glad that no injuries were sustained by police officers while executing their duties. We are advising the criminals to rather hand themselves over because police will utilise all their resources to track them down," said Langa.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  