Kenya's repeat elections to go ahead, says electoral board Nairobi - Kenya's repeat presidential elections will be held Thursday as planned, the electoral board announced, as tensions mounted across the country. The electoral board's statement came as the Supreme Court said Wednesday it could not hear a last-minute petition to postpone the elections because it didn't have a quorum of judges. The shooting of one judge's driver the evening before the hearing raised fears about intimidation of the judiciary. Supreme Court Chief Justice David Maraga appeared alone in the courtroom and said only he and one other judge had shown up for the hearing. For more on this story click here WATCH: Mugabe's Zanu-PF to raise $8 million for 'special congress' Harare – President Robert Mugabe's ruling Zanu-PF party has launched a fundraising drive to raise at least $8m for its extra-ordinary congress slated for December ahead of the 2018 elections, a report says. According to the state-owned Herald newspaper, Zanu-PF finance secretary, Obert Mpofu, who also chairs the fundraising committee, said that he was convinced that the party would be able to raise the needed funds. Mpofu appealed to business people and party members to support the initiative. Read more on this story here 'We won't allow anyone to tell us Mugabe, 93, is old,' says minister Marondera – A Zimbabwean minister has reportedly said that the ruling Zanu-PF party would never allow anyone, including the country's ex-freedom fighters to mock President Robert Mugabe over his advanced age. According to New Zimbabwe.com, Mashonaland east resident minister Ambrose Mutinhiri said that Mugabe, 93, was still fit to rule the southern African country. "Some people are saying the president is too old, but what he is doing for the country is enough evidence that he is still capable to lead. Anyway, we will not allow anyone to tell us that our President is old...," Mutinhiri was quoted as saying.  Read more on this story here UN chief praises peacekeepers in Central African Republic Bangui - The UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres paid tribute on Wednesday to the thousands of the UN peacekeepers in Central African Republic, the site of one of the UN's most dangerous missions and the most sexual misconduct allegations against peacekeepers and UN personnel last year. The UN chief attended a wreath-laying ceremony in the capital of Bangui. A dozen peacekeepers have lost their lives so far this year amid escalating violence in the long-volatile country. For more on this story click here Madagascar plague death toll climbs to 124 Antananarivo - The death toll from Madagascar's plague outbreak has reached 124, officials said on Tuesday, as they cautiously welcomed a slowdown in infections. The highly contagious plague has caused alarm across the poor Indian Ocean island since August, spreading to the capital Antananarivo and other cities. A total of 1,133 people have been infected, the health ministry said. For more on this story click here The Latest: Kenyans stock up at supermarkets before polls Nairobi - Long lines form in Kenyan supermarkets as people stock up on supplies ahead of the tension-filled repeat presidential elections to be held on Thursday. Uncertainty has stalked the fresh presidential elections ordered by the Supreme Court when it nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta's August re-election, citing irregularities and illegalities and the refusal by the electoral commission to allow scrutiny of its servers. For more on this story click here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  