Amanda Khoza Jonathan Jansen (Jeanette Chabalala, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg - Former University of the Free State vice-chancellor, Professor Jonathan Jansen, has accepted a position at Stellenbosch University, the university announced on Friday. Jansen, 61 is expected to take up a position as a professor in the Faculty of Education from November 1, the institution said in a statement. He will be teaching and conducting research on school governance, management, leadership and policy and will also mentor postgraduate students. IN FOCUS | Jonathan Jansen: Hold academics accountable Stellenbosch University rector and vice-chancellor, Professor Wim de Villiers, said the university would benefit from Jansen's expertise. "Professor Jansen is arguably one of the leading pedagogues of our time, but also the proverbial voice in the wilderness, addressing not only the state of the nation, but, equally important, the state of education in our beloved country." Biology teacher Vice-rector for Social Impact, Transformation and Personnel, Professor Nico Koopman added: "Professor Jansen is a scholar at heart. We are confident that his research expertise will have a meaningful social impact on all levels of the education system in South Africa." READ: Jonathan Jansen stirs the matric pot from afar Professor Yusef Waghid, acting dean of the Faculty of Education said, "I am optimistic that Professor Jansen's intellectual voice and passion for education will have a positive impact on the scholarly work with which the faculty is associated. "This is another opportunity to enhance our quest for a meaningful and just schooling system." Jansen was equally pleased about joining the university. "I am very excited about this opportunity to work at one of the best universities on the continent and with some of the leading educational researchers in the field. "I do hope to make a small contribution with my colleagues to making research count in the transformation of schools and in preparing the next generation of scholars." Jansen began his career as a biology teacher in Cape Town after he had completed his science degree at the University of the Western Cape. He went on to obtain an MS degree from Cornell University and a PhD from Stanford. Jansen also holds honorary doctorates from the University of Edinburgh, the University of Vermont and Cleveland State University. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  