'A free, fair election is unlikely in Kenya,' says an expert Cape Town – Kenya is "unlikely going to hold" a free and fair presidential vote as they are too many challenges ahead of the election rerun later this month, says an expert. In an interview with News24, political analyst Benji Ndolo said that the east African country was facing many challenges that were not conducive for an election rerun. Ndolo cited the lack of transparency within the country’s electoral body as one of the reasons why elections were unlikely.  He said ballot papers also were not ready yet, and the fact that they were being printed elsewhere was aggravating the problem.   Read more on this story here Zambia ends emergency powers imposed during crisis Lusaka - Zambia's justice minister said on Wednesday that emergency measures imposed at the height of a political crisis that followed the detention of an opposition leader on treason charges would not be renewed. The southern African nation was earlier this year rocked by soaring tensions that also saw a spate of arson attacks, some opposition legislators boycotting parliament and the barring of an overseas political observer. Justice Minister Given Lubinda told parliament that the special measures - a step towards a full state of emergency - would be allowed to expire after 90 days in force. For more on this story click here  WATCH: Zim police launch Operation Restore Order Harare - Zimbabwean police have launched a campaign to clear Harare’s streets of illegal vendors, a coalition of rights group said on Thursday. A short video clip posted by the Zimbabwe Human Rights NGO Forum showed helmeted riot police on the back of an armoured troop carrier parked in Robert Mugabe Road, while vendors apparently pack their wares.  “Zimbabwe Republic Police launching 'operation restore order' on vendors on Rbt Mugabe rd in Hre’s CBD!” the group tweeted, in reference to the code name given to the police blitz by the authorities. For more on this story  Mugabe's bodyguards should wheel him to podiums - MP Harare - Southerton MP Gift Chimanikire (MDC-T) has said that President Robert Mugabe's bodyguards should not let the veteran leader walk to podiums at international conferences, but, instead, use a wheelchair.  Chimanikire was taking part in a debate in the National Assembly on a motion in reply to the Presidential speech. He said Mugabe's bodyguards were embarrassing the veteran leader by letting him struggle to walk to podiums, NewsDay reported.  Read more on this story here  Militants that attacked US troops in Niger were new to area Tampa - The Islamic extremists that ambushed and killed US Army commando in Niger last week hadn't operated in that area before, Defence Secretary Jim Mattis said on Wednesday, referring to what officials believe was a relatively new offshoot of the Islamic State group there. Speaking to reporters travelling with him to Tampa, Mattis said he rejected suggestions that rescue forces were slow to respond to the assault, noting that French aircraft were overhead within 30 minutes. But he said the US military is reviewing whether changes should be made to these types of training missions in Africa. For more on this story click here Kenya bans protests in main city centres Nairobi - Kenya's government on Thursday banned protests in the centres of three major cities, including the capital Nairobi, citing lawlessness following opposition demonstrations against the country's electoral commission. "Due to the clear, present and imminent danger of breach of peace, the government notifies the public that, for the time being, we will not allow demonstrations within the central business districts of Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu," said Security Minister Fred Matiangi. "The inspector general of police has been advised accordingly."  Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  