Fatima Schroeder High Court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Australian paedophile Anthony Peter Freedendal is to appeal a ruling that found him liable to be extradited to his home country to face child sex charges, his attorney William Booth has confirmed. Booth told News24 that the appeal was filed at the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday and said that the grounds of the appeal would be filed at a later stage. In the interim, he was trying to find a way to get Freedendal released from Pollsmoor Prison, he said. On October 4, Wynberg Magistrate Xoliswa Ndoyana found Freedendal liable to be extradited and ordered that he be held in custody until Justice Minister Michael Masutha makes a final decision on the extradition. However, the 75-year-old had 15 court days to lodge an appeal against the court's decision. The appeal was filed just one day before the 15-day period expired. ALSO READ: Convicted paedophile liable for extradition to Australia, Cape Town court rules Freedendal was arrested in connection with the child sex charges in Port Lincoln, Australia in July 2011. He was released on bail. According to court papers, the Australian offences he has been charged with were allegedly committed from June 1999 to January 2003. The alleged victims were girls and boys, aged seven to 11. Among them was a nine-year-old intellectually disabled girl. Freedendal was later given permission to visit South Africa, but on condition that he return by November 21 that year. However, he never returned.     Instead, he ended up being arrested and charged with the sexual abuse of eight children in Cape Town. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to five years behind bars in terms of Section 276(1)(i) of the Criminal Procedure Act. In terms of that section of the Act, only 10 months of the five years had to be served directly in prison and the rest under correctional supervision. Freedendal was supposed to be released on parole in August 2016 and start his period of correctional supervision. However, Australian authorities requested his extradition at the 11th hour and he was never released.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  