Oscar Pistorius. (Gallo/Getty images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Spanking judgment causes an uproar, CCTV footage has emerged of a woman using a child to steal cellphones in supermarket and director James Toback accused of sexual harassment by 38 women. Scroll through some of Monday's leading stories on News24: Life Esidimeni: Former Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu expected to be subpoenaedFormer Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu is expected to be subpoenaed to testify at an arbitration hearing following the deaths of at least 141 former Life Esidimeni patients. Full story Spanking judgment sets a dangerous precedent - religious organisation Freedom of Religion South Africa says a High Court ruling which ordered parents to no longer spank their children encroached on parental authority as well as the freedom of parents. Read Have your say: Should parents be allowed to smack their children? Van Breda faking his blackout is possible - expert The possibility of Henri van Breda fabricating that he passed out for two hours and 40 minutes cannot be ruled out, the Western Cape High Court has heard. More Woman uses small child to steal cellphone in supermarket CCTV footage has emerged of a young girl pick-pocketing cellphones at two supermarkets in Cape Town, seemingly egged on by at least one adult woman.  Watch  SA not in a crisis - economist South Africa is not necessarily in a crisis, according to Lesiba Mothata, executive chief economist at Alexander Forbes Investments. Fin24 has more One dead, several injured after another Glebelands shooting There has been yet another killing at the infamous Glebelands Hostel in Umlazi, south of Durban, following a late night shootout, police say. Read ‘Offensive’ Oscar Pistorius ‘Blade Gunner’ costume causes uproar “This Paralympic runner costume is sure to cause some controversy at your next event. Includes top, shorts, boot covers and knee pads.” Find out more Amazon pulls tasteless Oscar Pistorius 'blade gunner' #Halloween costume pic.twitter.com/G63zWGijXx CSA confirms fixture reshuffle after Global League flop Cricket South Africa has announced the revised franchise fixtures for the 2017/18 season which will see the CSA T20 Challenge moved from the end of the season to the November-December window previously occupied by the postponed T20 Global League. Sport24 has the full story Outcry over SA lawyers arrested in Tanzania for 'promoting homosexuality'Two South Africans arrested for "promoting homosexuality" in Tanzania are being held "illegally" in the country's prisons, says the Initiative for Strategic Litigation in Africa.  More Director James Toback accused of sexual harassment by 38 women Writer and director James Toback has been accused of sexual harassment by 38 women in a report published in The Los Angeles Times. Read this story on Channel24 Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  