Paul Herman Zelda Holtzman (File,Peter Abrahams, Son) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Parliament has taken the decision to dismiss suspended security head Zelda Holtzman with immediate effect after receiving a recommendations report. Holtzman, who was Parliamentary Protection Services (PPS) boss, has been locked in a protracted labour battle with the institution since 2015. She and her deputy Motlatsi Mokgatla were reportedly suspended from their positions in 2015 after objecting to recruitment processes in Parliament's protection services. City Press reported at the time that Holtzman and Mokgatla opposed the inclusion of police officers in the PPS, and questioned the process that was followed in incorporating the officers into Parliament's structure. They had also questioned the appointment of a junior security official as the person in charge of police deployment in the chamber, and were not happy with Parliament's plans to bolster security. She had also questioned why the PPS should have to make one of its cars and a driver available for the use of Secretary to Parliament Gengezi Mgidlana, News24 reported. 'Breakdown in workplace relationship'  Holtzman laid charges with the Hawks against Parliament for allegedly breaking its own rules during an investigation into her deputy and herself, but lost a case at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration. On Wednesday, Parliament announced that a report by inquiry chairperson Takalani Madima found Holtzman guilty of insubordination. "The recommended sanctions of dismissal related to Ms Holtzman's refusal to provide written responses and a report to her manager, in terms of a lawful instruction for her to do so," Parliament spokesperson Moloto Mothapo said. It thus caused a "breakdown in the pivotal workplace relationship of trust between an employee and employer". Dismissal was also recommended for failing to produce a business plan, an annual budget, and a final written warning was recommended for "failing to take steps to address divisions in the Parliamentary Protection Services, including between herself and her deputy". 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  