Makhosandile Zulu PHOTO: Makhosandile ZuluTeachers, pupils and stakeholders of the spring school programme at Robben Island (back, from left), Mduduzi Mokoen (Mazwendoda High teacher), Hlelo Mbense (EDTEA), Thanduxolo Zuma (Zibukezulu Technical School pupil), Vuyiswa Gushu (Zibukezulu Technical School teacher), and (front, from left) Paul Buthelezi (Cogta), Penny Gumede (educationalist at Umgeni Water), Ayanda Ndaba (Zibukezulu Technical School pupil), Zanele Maphanga (Cogta) and Zanele Ndaba (Ayanda's mother).  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     PUPILS from Zibukezulu Technical and Mazwendoda High went to Robben Island on Friday to be part of the spring school residency programme, a flagship project run by the island’s museum. The project promotes a culture of learning by creating an environment conducive for education for young people where they can explore and engage with the history of Robben Island and tackle issues pertaining to culture, the environment and heritage. The pupils were selected after winning an uMgungundlovu District high school competition in which they had to conduct research on former Robben Island political prisoners. Representing one of the project stakeholders in this district, Hlelo Mbense from the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (EDTEA) said the three pupils, two from Zibukezulu and one from Mazwendoda, could possibly end up going to an international conference where they will share resolutions taken at the project on the island. Zibukezulu Grade 11 pupil, Thanduxolo Zuma said he was looking forward to the trip and said it would be a learning experience. Ayanda Ndaba, also a Zibukezulu Grade 11 pupil, said that the opportunity will help her learn more about broadcasting as the pupils will host a mock radio show. Zibukezulu teacher Vuyiswa Gushu said the trip would be eye-opening for pupils and help prepare them for their future careers. Ayanda’s mother Zanele ndaba said: “I’m happy for my daughter because she is a determined pupil and I’m sure the opportunity will provide her with knowledge that will make her think about her future.”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  