Kaveel Singh The University of the Freestate (Andre Damons, Netwerk24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Terrified students at the University of the Free State were left gasping for air after protesters discharged a fire extinguisher in their confined classroom during a semester test. Watch.WATCH Johannesburg – Despite protests, the University of the Free State (UFS) say exams will go ahead on three of its campuses on Monday.  The university released a statement on Sunday, saying its Bloemfontein, South and Qwaqwa campuses would still hold exams.  "The exams will go ahead on the Bloemfontein and Qwaqwa campuses on Monday, October 23, as per the exam timetable. All academic and administrative activities are also continuing on both campuses tomorrow." It said that the situation on the two campuses was "calm" on Sunday, with no disruptions on Saturday night.  "The university crisis team – including members of the executive management and protection services – is on alert and has worked with [police] during the weekend to ensure stability on the two campuses during the exams." UFS said security measures were in place for the exams and that both campuses were being "monitored closely". It called on students to refrain from monitoring fake social media posts.  Forty-six UFS students have been arrested since Thursday evening, following the latest protest action over fees. UFS spokesperson, Lacea Loader, said 36 students were arrested on the Bloemfontein campus late on Friday afternoon after a group of students clashed with members of the private security company and the South African Police Service (SAPS). These arrests follow after six students were arrested for arson on the Qwaqwa Campus on Thursday evening. Four students were also arrested on Friday morning for contravening the Interdict by causing disruptions at the Computer Labs and UFS Sasol Library. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  