File: AFP 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Harare – Zimbabwe's opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai is
reportedly back in South Africa for medical attention, just a few weeks after
his last trip. Tsvangirai announced last year that he had been
diagnosed with colon cancer and that he had begun chemotherapy. The Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader returned
to Harare a few weeks ago after being rushed to
South Africa where he spent a month receiving medical treatment. According to reports, he was now back again. A senior MDC official confirmed
Tsvangirai's latest trip, saying that he caught a scheduled flight to
Johannesburg on Friday morning. The official, however, maintained that that "it
wasn't an emergency, just a check-up", said EWN  A report by eNCA said that Tsvangirai had not
been seen in public since he returned to Zimbabwe on October 13. The report quoted his spokesperson Luke
Tamborinyoka as saying: "He (Tsvangirai) came back knowing full well he would return for a review and he
went for the review as scheduled." Tamborinyoka also wrote on his Facebook page on Friday
dismissing private press reports that Tsvangirai was
critically ill.  Tsvangirai's illness has raised concerns among
the opposition, with some senior officials saying that he should consider
stepping down to make way for a younger and fit leader.  But according to NewsDay, the leader of the
breakaway MDC formation, Welsman Ncube, who recently formed an alliance with
Tsvangirai, maintained that the former trade unionist was the MDC Alliance
presidential candidate despite battling ill heath. Ncube said that discussion surrounding the latter’s health
status is unwarranted. "…president Tsvangirai remains our best foot forward.
There is no doubt that we will campaign for him without hesitation, without
qualification and unconditionally and will not engage in such a debate," Ncube
was quoted as saying.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  