National Super Alliance coalition supporters demonstrate outside the Supreme Court in Nairobi on during the  
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Kenya's journey back to the polls was marred by protest and violence on Thursday.

WATCH Nairobi - The Latest on Kenya's repeat presidential election (all times local): 12:55 Church leaders in the Kenyan opposition stronghold of Kisumu say the country's electoral commission should not hold voting there on Saturday because it will lead to more bloodshed. At a news conference Friday, the church leaders said they feared a police crackdown if authorities proceed with voting in several opposition areas that boycotted Thursday's repeat presidential election. The electoral commission said it was delaying voting until Saturday in four counties because of security problems. Opposition supporters in those areas prevented polling stations from opening and clashed with police. Four people were killed on Thursday. Another was shot dead on Friday as clashes continued. 12:45  A police official says a man has been shot dead in western Kenya's Bungoma County as police and youth engage in running battles amid tensions over Thursday's repeat presidential election. The official spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals. Clashes between police and opposition supporters postponed voting in several counties until Saturday because polling stations were prevented from opening. Four people were killed on Thursday. 08:45  Kenya's election commission says about 6.5 million people, or one-third of registered voters, went to the polls in a presidential election that was boycotted by the main opposition group. The turnout in Thursday's election was much lower than the nearly 80% of registered voters who participated in an August 8 election that was later nullified by the Supreme Court. Wafula Chebukati, the election commission chairperson, said late on Thursday the count was based on results from 267 out of Kenya's 290 constituencies. Authorities postponed voting in several counties until on Saturday because opposition supporters prevented polling stations from opening and clashed with police. Four people were killed. President Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the winner in the August vote; opposition leader Raila Odinga says the election process is not credible. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  