Lethiwe Makhanya PHOTO: fileIllegal dumping on the corner of Pietermaritz and West streets in the CBD which was raised at the meeting. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories PIETERMARIZTBURG residents have raised their concerns over empty promises and slow service delivery from ward councillors and the Msunduzi Municipality. Residents spoke out at a public participation meeting at the Pietermaritzburg City Hall last Thursday, attended by a delegation from provincial legislature. The multi-party oversight meeting had seven MPLs, four of which were from the ANC, one from the Democratic Alliance, one from the Inkatha Freedom party and one from the National Freedom Party. Housing problems and the filth of the city were the top two problems that were raised. Mbuyiselwa Gasela from Sakha informal settlement in Mkondeni said they were promised houses in 2006, but nothing has come of that. They queried several times with the municipality, but no feedback was received. “The issue of housing went to the Constitutional Court and we won the land claims case. “In 2016, we were told by the municipality that the project is to start, but nothing happened. “We even went to Human Settlements in April with the hope of getting answers about the housing project. “The area earmarked for RDP houses has since been invaded. We are even scared of asking the invaders because we might get killed as they claim they have rights.” Gasela also spoke about McKay Drive in Ashburton, which was supposed to be finished in October last year but remains incomplete and the contractors have stopped working, claiming the municipality has not paid them. Zamani Ngcobo from Ward 39 complained about the dirtiness of the city and the vagrants all over. “Shops are closing down in the CBD and customers are scared because of the vagrants who sleep and live in front of the shops. The municipality must do something — it’s so dirty.” June Maharaj from Ward 34 said: “In Eastwood there are always major fights. We need visible policing and safety security. “People get killed almost every day because of the taverns everywhere. They must be closed down.” Thamsanqa Mbeje from Ward 29 said a housing­ project in their area was supposed to start in 2007 on land that is now used for a shooting range. “We are denied houses because of the shooting range that is of no benefit to us. If the municipality is not doing anything about this shooting range, we will tell community members to take action against it. “Another problem is the state of the road from Ward 29 to Ward 30. The road is in such a terrible condition you have to use Old Greytown Road from Ward 29 to Ward 30.” Msunduzi chief whip Truman Magubane said all the problems that were raised by residents have been noted and they [residents] will receive feedback on November 2 and 3 when the legislature team returns. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  