Amanda Khoza, Jeanette Chabalala United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa. (Picture: Lucky Nxumalo) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) in Bloemfontein will hand down judgment in an appeal by President Jacob Zuma and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in the "spy tapes" saga on Friday. Watch the live stream above. 

WATCH Bloemfontein – United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader Bantu Holomisa on Friday said he was not surprised by the Supreme Court of Appeal's (SCA) decision to dismiss the appeal brought by President Jacob Zuma and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), in relation to the reinstatement of corruption charges against the president. "This again is egg on the face for the ANC which manipulated [Mokotedi] Mpshe," said Holomisa. Mpshe was the former national director of public prosecutions, who decided not to prosecute Zuma. Holomisa was responding to a judgment, which was dismissed with costs, handed down on Friday by the SCA in Bloemfontein in an appeal by Zuma and the NPA in the "spy tapes" saga. LIVE: DA wants Zuma court case to start urgently "It is a crisis for the country because the NPA and the suspect, in the form of Jacob Zuma, went to court and asked the court and disgraced the institution by saying 'do not prosecute Zuma'. "The ANC might have to recall Zuma urgently or alternatively, Parliament must appoint two or three judges to help the NPA comb through the... charges to see which ones are still relevant today." Holomisa said the NPA "cannot be left to do the task alone because it could no longer be trusted". Zuma and the NPA had approached the SCA seeking leave to appeal the 2016 decision by the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. The 18 charges against Zuma were withdrawn in 2009, just before he was sworn in for his first term as president, but the DA wanted the charges to be reinstated. In 2016, a full bench of judges overturned the NPA's decision to drop the corruption charges against Zuma that related to fraud, racketeering and money laundering. Both the NPA and Zuma turned to the SCA after the High Court denied them direct access for an appeal. But last month Zuma and the NPA made an about-turn and conceded that Mpshe's decision not to prosecute Zuma was irrational.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  