Mxolisi Mngadi Female doll reaching for help. (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Polokwane – Three Limpopo pastors are facing charges after they allegedly raped three young girls in separate incidents in Phalaborwa, provincial police said on Tuesday. The pastors, who are each accused of charges including rape and sexual assault, will be kept in police custody until their next court appearances, according to Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe. Ngoepe said two of the men appeared at the Lulekani Magistrate's Court near Phalaborwa on Monday and will remain in custody until their bail applications on October 31. "A 52-year-old pastor was arrested in a village near Lulekani township for allegedly raping his 14-year-old half-sister. He is facing two counts of rape and four of sexual assault," said Ngoepe. He allegedly started raping the victim, who recently reported the matter to the police, when she was eleven years old, said Ngoepe. "It is alleged that the victim started living with the pastor and his wife when she was three following the death of her mother," he said. The second pastor, 39, from Majeje, outside Phalaborwa, appeared in the same court for raping an 8-year-old girl. "It is alleged that on October 20, at about 09:00, the victim was alone at her parental home when the suspect pulled her to the back of the house and sexually assaulted her," said Ngoepe. Ngoepe added that a 46-year-old pastor form Phalaborwa would appear at the Namakgale Magistrate's Court on October 26 for a bail application. He allegedly raped his 14-year-old stepdaughter at a village near Namakgale. The matter was reported to police by the girl's mother. Ngoepe said investigations were continuing in all three cases. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  