
        Witness for the defence Dr Antonel Olckers faced tough cross-examination in the stand over forensic data in the ongoing trial of Henri van Breda in the Western Cape High Court.
     Follow News24 journalist Tammy Petersen live form the court.   
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 Court is adjourned until 09:30 tomorrow morning.   "I see no reason why this evidence can't be introduced at this stage," Judge Desai says, after there is some discussion about additional evidence being brought into question.  Court adjourns for all parties to examine these documents more closely over the lunchtime break.   "Foreign peak can't be explained." Dr Olckers says neither she nor Lt Col. Otto can state what it is.   Olckers says she stated that it was unclear.   Desai: "What is effect?"  Olckers: "It could be a very low-level profile which is present of which we see only this one peak."   "There
could be a low-level mixture present in the samples."

 

 Olckers says
she can't be sure what it is

 Foreign peaks
means that there is an unexplained peak

 

 What does that
mean? Asks Judge Desai

 

 I can't answer
that, says Olckers

 Locus (plural: loci) is a term used for the DNA markers that
are tested and reported on your DNA Testing results.   On each report there are generally 16 markers displayed, 15 of which are used to help determine your DNA Test
results.

 

 In the case of a DNA Paternity Test, the alleged father must
match at least one of these numbers at each of the 15 markers.   Without matches at each position he may be
excluded as the biological father of the child. Having the biological mother
included with each DNA test will strengthen the results of your test.

 Desai: Are you
suggesting there's something wrong with SA's fingerprint system?

 
 I'm not a
fingerprint expert, I cannot testify to that, Olckers answers

 Olckers says
more loci used for DNA analysis is better

 

 Compares to
fingerprint matching

 
                Jump to
                top
            