Nation Nyoka Police have rearrested another escaped prisoner, but are still appealing to community members to come forward with information on the last two escapees. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Polokwane – Another one of the seven prisoners who broke out from Kutama Sinthumule 
maximum prison in Limpopo - following a riot on Friday - has been 
re-arrested in Musina, Limpopo.  Limpopo police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed on Sunday that 27-year-old Justice Makamo from Maputo, Mozambique was arrested by officials after community members recognised him in the area.  "This brings to five the number of prisoners arrested so far," he said in a statement. Only 30-year-old Raphael Nyota from Harare, Zimbabwe and 34-year-old Phathutshedzo Nemadodzi from Dididi in Thohoyandou are still on the run. "We take this opportunity to thank community members for their continued support."  Nemadodzi was in prison for house breaking and theft, while Nyota was in prison for murder and robbery with aggravating assault.  On Friday, Chris Faku was arrested while hitch hiking. He was serving time in prison for robbery with aggravated assault.  News24 previously reported that two other arrests were made on Saturday morning when Jabulani Isaac Mahlangu and Thomas Munyai were apprehended in a house at Shirley, in the Waterval policing area. Both were serving sentences for rape and murder.   Police called on community members in the areas of Mavhungeni, Schoemansdal, Maebani and the surrounding farms to be on the lookout for suspicious looking persons and to come forward with any information to the Makhado Station Commander Colonel Mabatha at 0825658171 or Lieutenant Colonel Tshililo at 0824146272. All five rearrested escapees have already been charged and will appear in Louis Trichartd Magistrate Court on Tuesday.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  