Iavan Pijoos Police Minister Fikile Mbalula. (Jan Gerber, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula presented the annual South African Crime statistics in Parliament on Tuesday morning. Here's everything you need to know. While there has been a decrease in sexual offences, there was a huge spike in 'trio crimes'. Watch.  WATCH Cape Town - Residents of Atteridgeville, a township west of Pretoria, have experienced the biggest spike in home robberies during the last year.  The shocking increase was revealed in the crime statistics of April 2016 to March 2017, which was released on Tuesday. While Honeydew, west of Johannesburg tops the list of most home robberies at 337, it showed a decrease of 11.3% in comparison with the 2015/2016 statistics over the same period. INFOGRAPHIC: South Africa's crime stats at a glance Meanwhile, Atteridgeville, which only had 130 robberies during this period, is up by 97% over the previous period. The second highest increase is in Mtunzini in northern KwaZulu–Natal with 93.7%. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula released the crime statistics to the Portfolio Committee on Police in Parliament. Despite a 1.8% decrease in crime during, Mbalula said he did not feel the current drop in crime.  "Yes, we have a 1.8% drop in crime, I do not feel it, and our people do not feel it, and they are correct. We have a drop in sexual violence, but we have more and more pictures of our women going missing. People must feel the drop in crime where they live," Mbalula said.  Home robberies According to crime statistics the biggest drop in home robberies was in; • Nyanga in the Western Cape with 16.1%; and • Honeydew, Gauteng at 11.3%. Carjacking The area where you are most likely to fall victim to carjacking is Berea in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal, with a whopping increase of 214.6%.  It is followed by Olievenhoutbosch in Centurion, with an increase of 144.2%.  The area with biggest drop in carjacking is; • Chatsworth in KZN with 26.9%; • Gugulethu in the Western Cape with a decrease of 22.3%. 'Behind the numbers are real feelings' While Rustenburg, the economic hub in the North West, had the highest increase of 35.3% of robbery with aggravating circumstances.  The second highest surge is Pinetown in KZN with 32.1%. Mitchells Plain, outside Cape Town, had a drop of 24.4% in robbery with aggravating circumstances.  Harare in the Western Cape had the second biggest decline of 2.4%.  Mbalula said the statistics should not only be considered as pure numbers. "Behind the numbers are real feelings, real lives, real hurt, real harm, real losses, deaths, feelings of unsafety – these statistics represent the memory of that gruesome rape or murder, the fearful home invasion and loss of property."    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  