
        Las Vegas police have found at least eight guns in the 32nd floor hotel room from which a gunman opened fire at concertgoers below, killing at least 50 and injuring more than 200, police say.
     
                    Jump to
                    bottom
                 President Donald Trump decried the massacre of at least 58 Las Vegas concert goers as an "act of pure evil" on Monday, but refrained from addressing calls for gun control or an unproven claim of responsibility from the Islamic State group. Delivering televised remarks from the White House, Trump ordered that flags be flown at half-staff until sunset on Friday, offered prayers for the victims and announced he would visit Las Vegas on Wednesday. Trump did not address an IS propaganda agency's unverified claim that one of its "soldiers" who had "converted to Islam" months ago was responsible.White House officials also refused to comment on that claim "at this point" saying the local authorities' investigation was "ongoing."  The FBI says it has so far found "no connection" between international terrorist groups and the Vegas attack. Calling for unity, Trump instead tried to console the nation - an act that has become a grim rite of passage for modern US presidents as each mass shooting rekindles the divisive national debate on gun control."In moments of tragedy and horror, America comes together as one - and it always has," Trump said. "Our unity cannot be shattered by evil. Our bonds cannot be broken by violence. And though we feel such great anger at the senseless murder of our fellow citizens, it is our love that defines us today -- and always will, forever." But in the immediate aftermath of the shooting, that unity was difficult to find. 'Right to bear arms'  Police have identified the heavily armed gunman behind the Sunday night massacre in Las Vegas - the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history which left more than 500 injured - as a 64-year-old Nevada resident named Stephen Craig Paddock.Paddock apparently killed himself before a SWAT team breached his hotel room overlooking the concert venue, recovering at least eight rifles. Trump's vanquished election rival Hillary Clinton hit out at the gun manufacturers lobby - the National Rifle Association - which has backed a congressional push to make it easier to obtain a gun silencer. "The crowd fled at the sound of gunshots. Imagine the deaths if the shooter had a silencer," tweeted Clinton, whose Democratic Party has tried in vain to introduce lasting gun control measures despite the national scourge of mass shootings. "Our grief isn't enough. We can and must put politics aside, stand up to the NRA, and work together to try to stop this from happening again. "The issue of gun control is highly sensitive in the United States and Trump's own views on the issue have changed markedly over his years in public life. After the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, where 20 six and seven-year old children and six adults were mowed down by a disturbed 20-year-old, Trump appeared to favor stricter rules. Back then, president Barack Obama - who often called Sandy Hook the worst moment of his eight year presidency and recalls even his Secret Service detail in tears - called for the deadlock to be broken and for Congress to act. At that time Trump tweeted: "President Obama spoke for me and every American in his remarks in #Newtown Connecticut."But since then Trump - whose White House bid was eagerly endorsed by the NRA -- has positioned himself as a staunch defender of the constitutional "right to keep and bear arms. "US Senator Chris Murphy, who was the congressman for Sandy Hook, renewed a call for action in the wake of the Las Vegas attack. "Nowhere but America do horrific large-scale mass shootings happen with this degree of regularity," he said. "This must stop. It is positively infuriating that my colleagues in Congress are so afraid of the gun industry that they pretend there aren't public policy responses to this epidemic." Eiffel Tower to go dark for Ls Vegas victims  The Eiffel Tower will go dark on Monday night in tribute to the victims of the attacks in Las Vegas and Marseille, Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo said on Twitter. At least 50 people were killed and hundreds wounded on Sunday when a gunman opened fire on a concert in Las Vegas in the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history.  Earlier on Sunday, a man knifed two young women to death outside the main train station in Marseille, France's second-biggest city. The Islamic State group claimed responsibility for both attacks via the jihadists' propaganda outlet Amaq, which said they were carried out by its "soldiers".  It did not provide any evidence for either claim. "Tonight we will turn off the Eiffel Tower from midnight in homage to the victims of the attacks in Marseille and Las Vegas," Hidalgo wrote, adding the hashtag "we are united".  The French capital has repeatedly switched off the night-time lights on its most famous landmark to show solidarity with victims of terror attacks from London to Kabul. Entertainment venues under attack   Crowded clubs and music venues have come under attack several times in the past. After the shooting at a Las Vegas concert that killed at least 58 people late on Sunday, here is a recap of some of the deadliest attacks on such venues around the world over the past 15 years. Manchester pop concert  On May 22 this year, a suicide bomber kills at least 22 people and wounds 59 at the 21 000-capacity Manchester Arena after a concert by US singer Ariana Grande.  The attacker claims to be a supporter of the Islamic State group.  Istanbul nightclub  Shortly after Turkey rings in 2017, a gunman bursts into the exclusive Reina nightclub, spraying partygoers with bullets and killing 39 people, mostly foreigners. Another 65 people are wounded at the venue which is packed with more than 700 people. The attack is also claimed by the IS group.  Florida gay club  In June 2016, a gunman opens fire inside the Pulse gay nightclub in Orlando, killing 49 people and wounding more than 50. US authorities say the attacker had pledged allegiance to IS, with the extremist group later identifying him as one of its militants. Paris, Bataclan  Three armed men wearing explosive belts storm the Bataclan concert hall in Paris in November 2015, killing 90 people during a gig by US rock group Eagles of Death Metal. At the same time other gunmen open fire on bars and restaurants in the city while others blow themselves up outside the Stade de France stadium.  Claimed by IS, the attacks kill 130 people and wound another 350 in the worst-ever terror attacks on French soil. Moscow festival  In July 2003, a double suicide attack during a rock concert at the Tushino airfield near Moscow kills 15 people and wounds around 50.  Two women identified by Russia as Chechen separatists mixed with around 20 000 fans who had come to hear some of Russia's top bands at the annual Krylya (Wings) festival. Moscow musical  Chechen rebels disrupt a musical in Moscow and take more than 912 people hostage over three days in October 2002.  Russian special forces storm the theatre after sending in gas to subdue the gunmen; when the smoke clears, 130 hostages are dead, almost all of them because of the gas. Bali nightclub  The Sari Club and Paddy's Bar in Bali are hit by a huge car bomb in October 2002. Both are filled with foreign tourists and 202 people, 88 of them Australians, are killed. The attack is attributed to the Jemaah Islamiyah, a south-east Asian network linked to Al-Qaeda. Fifty-eight people are now known to have been killed in a mass shooting at an open air concert in Las Vegas while another 515 were wounded, police said on Monday. "The number of people who have died associated with this event has increased. Right now we're using the number of 58," Las Vegas Sheriff Joseph Lombardo told reporters. "The number of injured - we are using the number of 515." 'Like firecrackers'  Witnesses told how Paddock opened fire with an initial long burst, and then appeared to reload as he continued his spree. "We heard [what] sounded like a glass breaking, so you looked around to see what's going on and then heard a pop, pop, pop," Monique Dekerf told CNN. "You'd think for a moment okay we're fine, there's no more gunfire, then it starts again."  Her sister Rachel said it sounded like "the shots were coming from the right side... it sounded like they were right beside us too... it was right there." Best-selling country singer Jason Aldean was on stage and near the end of his concert when the shooting began. Aldean initially carried on playing when the first crackle of gunfire could be heard but then hurried off the stage once he realized it was a shooting. Robert Hayes, a firefighter from Los Angeles who was watching near the front of the stage, said he first thought the gunfire was some kind of equipment malfunction. Once he realised what was going on, he joined the first responders, donning one of their vests. "Honestly I probably pronounced 15-20 people" dead, he told Fox News.  "It was pretty much like a war scene inside. "Emergency crews used anything to hand as makeshift stretchers, including tables and metal railings normally used to control the crowds, said Hayes. Asked if he thought it was an inexperienced gunman, he responded: "With 30 000 people in the arena area, it was kind of like shooting goldfish ... He didn't have to be good." - AFP  Vegas shooter a retired accountant  Stephen Craig Paddock was a retired accountant who lived on a desert golf course in Mesquite Nevada, with no known history of violence - until he shot dead 50 people in a hail of gunfire from his Las Vegas hotel window. Paddock's family was in shock after the 64-year-old sowed terror on the Vegas strip in the worst mass shooting in recent US history, which the Islamic State group early Monday claimed was carried out by one of its "soldiers".  His brother, Eric Paddock, told CBS News his brother was "not an avid gun guy at all". "Where the hell did he get automatic weapons? He has no military background or anything like that," he said.  "He's a guy who lived in a house in Mesquite, drove down and gambled in Las Vegas. He did stuff. Eat burritos. "Paddock was found dead, apparently of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, when a police SWAT team burst in to his room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Hotel. The gunman, who photographs showed as greying with a trimmed beard and moustache, was a former accountant and a licensed pilot with no criminal record, according to ABC News. At least eight weapons, including a number of long rifles, were recovered in his hotel room. Las Vegas police said 50 people were confirmed dead and more than 400 people were transported to hospitals in the horrific shooting. ISIS' propaganda outlet Amaq said in online statements the attack was carried out by a "soldier" who had "converted to Islam several months ago". Security officials earlier said Paddock appeared to have been working alone, and his brother told US media he had no known religious affiliation. "Nothing. No religious affiliation, no political affiliation, he just hung out," Eric Paddock told CBS. The 55-year-old Paddock, who lives in Orlando Florida, told media the family was shocked by the shooting. "It's like an asteroid just fell on top of our family," he told the Las Vegas Review-Journal.  "We have no idea how this happened." Stephen Paddock also had a hunting license for Alaska, where hunting for big game like elk and bear is popular. According to publicly available information, he resided in a new golf course development carved into the desert just outside Mesquite, Nevada on the border with Arizona. - AFP The Islamic State group has claimed responsibility for the mass shooting in Las Vegas, saying that the perpetrator was "a soldier" who had converted to Islam months ago, without providing any evidence to support the claim. The group released two statements on its Aamaq news agency on Monday, hours after the shooting at a country music concert that killed at least 50 people and wounded at least 400. It did not name the suspected shooter, identified by Las Vegas police as 64-year-old Stephen Paddock, but said he had "executed the operation in response to calls to target countries of the coalition" batting the extremist group in Iraq and Syria. ISIS often claims attacks by individuals inspired by its message but with no known links to the group. Washington - President Donald Trump will on Monday address the nation in the wake of a shooting massacre in Las Vegas - the most deadly in modern US history - assuming the role of national consoler-in-chief. Trump will make televised remarks from the Diplomatic Room of the White House at around 16:30, the White House said, in what has become a grim rite of passage for modern US presidents. Worst mass shootings in the modern United States   After a gunman killed more than 50 people at a Las Vegas concert on Sunday, here are some of the deadliest mass shootings in the United States in the past 25 years. Florida club: 49 killed  A heavily-armed gunman opens fire inside a gay nightclub in the city of Orlando on June 12, 2016 and kills 49 people. The attacker is killed in a shootout with police; he pledges allegiance to the Islamic State group, which later claims responsibility. Virginia Tech: 32 killed  A 23-year-old student of Korean origin goes on a rampage at Virginia Tech University in the town of Blacksburg in April 2007. He kills 27 students and five teachers before committing suicide. Sandy Hook: 26 killed  A disturbed 20-year-old man kills his mother in Newtown, Connecticut, in December 2012 before blasting his way into Sandy Hook Elementary School and shooting dead 20 six- and seven-year old children and six adults. He commits suicide. Texas restaurant: 22 dead  -In October 1991 a man shoots dead 22 people in a restaurant in the town of Killeen, Texas and then kills himself. Another wounded victim dies later. California office party: 14 dead  A newlywed radicalised Muslim couple storm a Christmas office party at a social services center in San Bernardino in December 2015 and gun down 14 people, wounding 22 others. They are shot dead by police. Fort Hood military base: 13 dead  In November 2009 a US army psychiatrist opens fire at his military base in Killeen, Texas, killing 13 people and wounding 42, before being overpowered by police. New York immigrant center: 13 dead  A Vietnamese immigrant shoots dead 13 people at a civic center in the New York state city of Binghamton in April 2009, before killing himself. Columbine High: 13 dead  Two teenage boys shoot and kill 12 classmates and a teacher at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado, in April 1999, before killing themselves. Marines: 12 dead  A troubled former serviceman shoots randomly at workers at the Washington Navy Yard headquarters in September 2013, killing 12 people before he is shot dead by officers. Denver cinema: 12 dead  A young man wearing body armor storms a cinema showing a late-night premiere of a Batman film in Aurora, Colorado in July 2012, opening fire and releasing tear gas. Twelve people and 70 wounded. He is sentenced to life in prison. The US Homeland Security Department says there is no "specific credible threat" involving other public venues in the US. after the Las Vegas shooting that killed at least 50 people. The gunman, identified by police as Stephen Paddock died at the scene.  Police said he fired from the 32nd floor of a Las Vegas Strip casino onto an outdoor country music festival Sunday night.  It was the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history.  In Washington, A Homeland Security spokesperson, David Lapan, tweeted on Monday the department has "no information to indicate a specific credible threat involving other public venues in the country". Police have not yet determined a motive in the shootings. Pope Francis on Monday described a deadly shooting at a Las Vegas concert as a "senseless tragedy" after at least 50 people were gunned down and over 200 others wounded. "Deeply saddened to learn of the shooting in Las Vegas, Pope Francis sends the assurance of his spiritual closeness to all those affected by this senseless tragedy," the Vatican said in a telegram." He commends the efforts of the police and emergency service personnel, and offers the promise of his prayers for the injured and for all who have died," it added. THE LATEST: 5:45am Heavily armed police are searching the Nevada retirement-community home of a man authorities say killed more than 50 people when he opened fire at a country-music concert in Las Vegas.  Mesquite Police Chief Troy Tanner says police surrounded and entered the single-family home where 64-year-old Stephen Paddock lived with 62-year-old Marilou Danley early Monday morning. He says Danley was not at the house and police saw "no movement" inside before serving a search warrant at the one-story, three-bedroom home in the Sun City Mesquite retirement community, about 80 miles north of Las Vegas. Tanner says detectives from Las Vegas and North Las Vegas were at the scene in the resort community of Mesquite, located near the Arizona state line. THE LATEST: More than 400 victims were taken to hospital after a mass shooting in Las Vegas which left 50 people dead, police said on Monday. Approximately 406 people were transported to area hospitals, the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said in a statement which also put the toll from Sunday night's shooting at 50. Police had previously said at least 50 people had been killed at the country music festival and put the number of injured at more than 200. It was not immediately clear if the 406 included anyone who was later pronounced dead in hospital. Las Vegas police found at least eight guns in the 32nd floor hotel room from which a gunman opened fire at concertgoers below, killing at least 50 and injuring more than 200, police said. Undersheriff Kevin McMahill told CNN a police SWAT team found "a number of long rifles" after confronting the gunman in the hotel room."There was at least eight guns," he said. THE LATEST: 5:20am The Los Angeles Sheriff's Department says two of its off-duty members were shot during the attack at a Las Vegas concert. Authorities say both were taken to the hospital, where one remains in critical condition and the other was in stable condition. Officials did not immediately release their names. THE LATEST: 5:15am. Las Vegas police say they've determined that a woman they were seeking is no longer considered a "person of interest" in the deadly mass shooting at a country music festival. Police say they don't believe 62-year-old Marilou Danley was involved in the Sunday night shooting that killed at least 50 people and wounded more than 200. Police initially said they were seeking the woman who may have been the roommate of the shooter. 4:40am Authorities say the on-duty police officer who was wounded at the deadly Las Vegas concert attack is out of surgery and in stable condition. The unnamed officer was one of two on-duty Las Vegas police officers wounded on Sunday night. The other sustained minor injuries. AP UPDATE:
Trump tweets condolences to Las Vegas shooting victims  Washington – President Donald Trump is extending condolences
to the victims of the shooting in Las Vegas and their families.
 In a tweet on Monday, Trump offered "My warmest condolences
and sympathies to the victims and families of the terrible Las Vegas shooting.
God bless you!"
 White House spokesperson Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Trump
was "briefed on the horrific tragedy in Las Vegas".
 Sanders said that "we are monitoring the situation
closely and offer our full support to state and local officials. All of those
affected are in our thoughts and prayers."
 A gunman's attack on the Sunday night country music concert
killed at least 50 people and wounded more than 200.   Country star Jason Aldean calls Las Vegas attack 'beyond horrific'  Country music star Jason Aldean took to social media to say he and his crew are safe after a gunman killed 50 people at an outdoor concert on Sunday.  Aldean was in the middle of his performance when the bullets rained down on the crowd. He posted on Instagram hours later, calling the shooting "beyond horrific".   THE LATEST:  Las Vegas (AP) — The latest on the shooting in Las Vegas (all times local):  03:30. A Nevada sheriff says the death toll has climbed to 50 in the attack on a Las Vegas concert on Sunday, making it the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history. Clark County Sheriff Joseph Lombardo says more than 200 people were wounded at the Route 91 Harvest Music Festival on the Strip. Authorities have identified the suspected gunman as Nevada resident Stephen Paddock. Lombardo says officers confronted Paddock on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Hotel and Casino across the street from the concert. Paddock is dead. Authorities say they have located 62-year-old Marilou Danley, who was wanted as a person of interest in this incident. The dead gunman is also believed to have checked in as a hotel guest.  ___  02:00. A Nevada sheriff says one on-duty officer is in critical condition and another was wounded in the Las Vegas concert shooting that left more than 20 people dead. Clark County Sheriff Joseph Lombardo says two off-duty officers have died. Several officers from California were attending the outdoor Route 91 Harvest Music Festival on Sunday when a gunman opened fire. A Bakersfield Police officer was shot and taken to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries. Authorities have not released any of their identities. More than 100 people were injured. Lombardo says the suspect is dead. The sheriff says they believe this was a "lone wolf" attack but said they are looking for a roommate of the dead suspect as a person of interest.  ___  01:55. Country music star Jason Aldean took to social media to say he and his crew are safe after a gunman killed more than 20 people at an outdoor concert on Sunday. Aldean was in the middle of his performance when the bullets rained down on the crowd. He posted on Instagram hours later, calling the shooting "beyond horrific". Las Vegas authorities say more than 100 people are wounded in the attack. Clark County's sheriff says officers confronted the suspect on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Hotel and Casino across the street from the Route 91 Harvest Music Festival. Authorities say the man is dead.  Donald Trump has broken his silence and tweeted condolences and sympathies to those affected by the Las Vegas shooting.   
                Jump to
                top
            