Jenni Evans (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - An unlicensed gun that was discovered in a raid on a Cape Town woman's house, and allegedly sold on with help from a top police officer, was the focus in the trial-within-a-trial of former police commissioner Arno Lamoer on Tuesday. Investigating Officer Colonel Abdul Enus was on the back foot during cross-examination in the Western Cape High Court because his investigating diary had been stolen from him in Durban, and he had had to reconstruct his entire investigation timeline. READ: Arno Lamoer corruption probe diary stolen from investigating officer The point of the cross-examination was to find out when Enus started investigating the case and how he was briefed, as the defence attempted to isolate charges built on evidence possibly gleaned through illegal surveillance or records. He is the commander of an investigative unit in the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation's (DPCI) corruption unit, which forms part of the Hawks. The background to Tuesday's line of questioning related to a police raid. The resident of the house, named only as Mrs Mulligan, volunteered that they would find an unlicensed firearm in her safe. It had belonged to her late husband and she had just put it there while deciding what to do with it. The accused in the trial are Lamoer, tow truck company owner Salim Dawjee, and brigadiers Darius van der Ross, Sharon Govender and her husband Colin Govender. They face 109 charges of corruption, racketeering and money laundering involving R1.6m. ALSO READ: Gloves off in Lamoer trial as State accused of dodgy methods Dawjee allegedly paid them for favours by covering some of their fuel, clothing and travel costs. All five have pleaded not guilty. The firearm surrendered at the raided house was allegedly sold on through one of Lamoer's co-accused, Dawjee, allegedly with the help of his other co-accused Colin Govender. Enus remembered that the case was handed over to him, but a docket had not yet been opened. He sparred with defence Advocate William King SC, over who he had met, and over the Mullins gun registration form having a "case withdrawn" stamp on it. The trial within a trial continues. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  