It is inconceivable currently in South Africa to think of leaders of character and not mention the right Reverend Bishop, Dr BE Lekganyane. To everyone, I can safely assume he has been a wealth of knowledge and perfect picture of leadership that imbues humility and complete dossier of Christian values. This is the leadership that stood the test of time, in an era where religion has been commercialized in South Africa, the commission for the promotion and protection of the rights of cultural, religious and linguistics communities found that the ZCC’s financial affairs are in order. I have on numerous occasions read the sermon by The Right Reverend and I am always left in awe, the intelligence, the aura of leadership and prospect of Afro optimism always takes my breath away. In a nutshell, in The Right Reverend, the ZCC, the biggest church in Africa is well led. It is well led and Africa can do more with leaders of his characters. In his book, 100 lessons in diversity, Stanley Bongwe argues that a leader should have humanity, his ability to connect with his own humanity should protrude in his own actions. Understand that I write this article with utmost respect to The Right Reverend, also understand that association arbitrarily endorses. I also understand that I run the risk of being accused to be an anti-Semite whereas I am not at all. His Grace Dr Barnabas Lekganyane has recently visited Israel and had a dialogue with high profile leader of the Israel state including President Reuben Rivlin in Jerusalem. I think it should not be a queer discourse to ask, in spite of all that is happening In Israel and especially the colonization and apartheid of Palestine-is the right reverend, consciously or not, endorsing oppression of Palestinians and the Israel apartheid power structures. Any Israel visit by a caliber of the Right reverend arbitrarily promotes that state and its external policies, this becomes critical especially when those policies borders genocide, ethnic cleansing, killing of children and civilians and colonization. This is a nation that has colonized another nation with a gendarme. In the words of Marzoug Al Ghanim when describing Israel “we are not talking about an entity that discriminates racially and religiously, but an entity that basically eliminates the other”, the other being Palestine, the open wound. The inelastic policy that ZCC is above politics cannot be applied in this case, the issue of Israel and Palestine is not political, it is a moral issue. It is an issue of humanity and indeed way above politics, Israel deems Palestine image, appearance, customs, religion and intellect and their right to land ungodly immoral for them to continue with these few basic rights in peace. Few years back in South Africa, we reeled under the monstrous titan of apartheid oppressive governance. The entire black race was subjugated by the white minority rule and subjected to inhumane conditions that are still difficult to eradicate even today. It is too early to forget that is was through intense co-ordinated effort from international community that the Senior leaders of our struggles were released from Jail. It is through those efforts, from people alike, of the same caliber as The Right Reverend, who stood up and protested till the collapse of the regime in 1994. This was stratified further by Edmund Burke when he said, “All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing”. The Right Reverend, with utmost respect, as a Christian and as a man who I have always known to embody the Christian values, the bible calls men to “have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but reprove them” ( Eph.5:11). Let me also mention that at the backdrop of his visit to Israel, Inter-parliamentary Union conference is going on in Russia and Israel delegates were called out by Kuwaiti officials to leave and they did. This is the kind of pressure, isolation, sanctions that shifted policy and makes the word a better place. I plead that we don’t fall victims to normalizing the occupation of Palestinian land. In his Sermon on celebrating the new year of the ZCC on the 3rd September, The Right Reverend echoed the need for exemplary leadership. There can’t be liberty of oneself without the liberty of another. Palestine will be free, from the rivers to the see. We must unite against Zionism and free the children of Palestine.