Nation Nyoka (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Stellenbosch – A farmer, who was shot in the early hours of Tuesday on his farm in Klapmuts, died at Stellenbosch Mediclinic after succumbing to his injuries, police have confirmed.Although the police have not formally named him, he has been named on Facebook as 47-year-old wine farmer Joubert Conradie.“The victim reacted to a noise in his residence [just before 01:00] when he was attacked and shot by unknown suspects, who fled empty handed,” police said in a statement.Conradie was taken to a local hospital where he immediately received medical treatment.In a Facebook post, DA MP Dianne Kohler Barnard, said that Conradie died during emergency surgery. Media consultant to the wine industry and wine writer, Emile Joubert, described Conradie as a great farmer.“To have somebody lose a life in this manner has been a tragedy. I am concerned that the area has been ravaged by crime over the past six to eight months – we have had friends who have been robbed and assaulted,” he said.Joubert said that, although he did not expect it, he was not surprised by what had happened because authorities have not paid attention to warning signs of a wave of crime. “This will have an impact on the greater wine community. Wine-making is the lifeblood of this community, and its success depends on the image of the wine community. So, to have such a gruesome incident on top of the Stellenbosch Cubana shooting, is a big hamper,” Joubert said.He said he hoped everyone could unite to prevent similar crimes. The police’s Lieutenant Colonel André Traut said in a statement that the circumstances surrounding the incident were still being investigated.No arrests have been made.Police have appealed to anyone with information to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111.Conradie is survived by his wife and two children. Stellenbosch wine-farmer Joubert Conradie murdered on Klapmuts farm. Wineland crime is totally, just totally out of control. #wetoo     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  