Jan Bornman Qedani Mahlangu (File, Suzanne Venter, Rapport). 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg
– Former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani
Mahlangu is expected to be subpoenaed to testify at an arbitration hearing,
following the deaths of at least 141 former Life Esidimeni patients. This was what a high profile
source revealed to News24 on Monday. It was an emotional day for
Christian Ngqondwane, whose son Vuyo died after he was transferred from Life
Esidimeni to the Cullinan Care and Rehabilitation Centre (CCRC), as he called
on the former MEC to come testify at the hearings. "Qedani must come here and
explain why my son was... taken to CCRC to be killed," he said. Ngqondwane, like the
families who testified before him, insisted that Mahlangu had to testify and
explain why their loved ones were allowed to die. "My heart will never be at
peace with Qedani Mahlangu until she comes here and tells us why she did these
things," an emotional Ngqondwane said. "She must come back from
London and testify," he said. 'We’ve got nothing' Ngqondwane, dressed
in a neat suit, told the hearings how he and his wife struggled financially,
and how Vuyo’s death had left the family traumatised. "Firstly, [Vuyo’s funeral]
took my pocket out. Second, it traumatised me and my family. To this day my wife
can’t sleep," he said. "We are not happy, we’ve got
nothing. Currently, even in the bank, I have nothing. Do not be surprised by me
wearing a suit and tie, there is hunger here," he said. Ngqondwane said all
he wanted was justice. Earlier in the day, Christine
Nxumalo, whose sister Virginia Machpelah died after she was moved from Life
Esidimeni to Precious Angels, told the hearings that she wanted the truth to
come out and see those who had acted unlawfully be charged. "I would like to get the
answers, but I would also like to get them charged," she told the hearing. Arbitration chair, former deputy
chief justice Dikgang Moseneke, responded by saying it was a "competition
between truth and justice". Helping Hand, the charity arm of
Solidarity, which represents three family members who lost relatives, said in a
statement on Monday that it wanted Mahlangu to testify at the hearings about
"the unnecessary deaths of dozens of mental health patients". "Helping Hand believes that
she should attend the arbitration process to be held accountable for the
consequences of her injudicious decisions," it stated. Also read: Life Esidimeni: Family of victim dealt 2nd blow It said it had received
permission from Moseneke and the other legal parties to contact Mahlangu. "Their legal representatives
are now attempting to issue a witness subpoena to force Mahlangu to come and
testify. She is currently in the United Kingdom where she is studying and she
has not been available for comment," the statement said. The Democratic Alliance’s Jack
Bloom said on Sunday that it was important for Mahlangu to account for her
actions. "Relatives of the deceased
patients are unanimous that she be summonsed
to the arbitration hearings, and their wishes should be respected. They will
not have closure until they hear the full truth from the person most
responsible for this immense human tragedy," he said. The hearings continue on Tuesday. Read more about the tradegy here   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  