A 43-year-old Uber driver was robbed by clients who requested a ride on Sunday 8 October. Steenberg police spokesperson Warrant Officer John Bartlett says the robbery happened around 02:20. The Uber driver alleged that he received a notification from a client wanting a ride from Plumstead to a club in Retreat Road, ­Retreat.  “He went to Plumstead where two women and one man got in. When they arrived at the club a mob of people approached the car and one man came to the driver’s side and took the keys. They then forcefully opened the door, saying that the driver must get out or they were going to kill him,” he says. The people assaulted him and stabbed him in his right arm and shoulder. The one who took the keys got in and drove off with the passengers he had brought from Plumstead. His wallet containing R1600 and two cellphones were in the white Nissan Almera with registration number CA 156 700, says Bartlett. At 06:15 the same morning Steenberg police were busy with patrols when they spotted the car driving fast and recklessly in front of them. They tried to pull it over but the car sped off.  “Officers followed the car and it crashed into a wall in Kornett Road, Steenberg. Five people aged between 17 and 36 (three women and two men) were found in the car and arrested,” says ­Bartlett. Steenberg police have registered a case of carjacking, reckless and negligent driving, malicious damage to property, possession of an imitation firearm and presumably stolen property. The suspects appeared in the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court on Monday 9 October. 
 Another car robbedIn a separate incident, an Uber driver from Milnerton was picking up clients in Retreat Road, Retreat when he was robbed on Sunday 1 October 2017 at about 04:00. Bartlett says while they were waiting in the car for another person, they were approached by three unknown men. “One of the robbers stood at the driver’s side door and pointed a firearm at the driver. They told him to get out of the car. The robber switched it off and took the keys out of the ignition. One of the men grabbed the keys from him and another robber, who was at the front passenger door with a firearm, instructed the driver to leave his phones in the car. The third man forced the female client out of the car and the robbers drove off with the car,” he says. “No shots were fired and the victims did not sustain any injuries. The car was later retrieved in Grassy Park. No arrests have been made and Steenberg police have registered a case of carjacking,” says Bartlett. 
 
  V 
  Anyone with information on the incidents is requested to call Steenberg police on 021 702 9000.
 
 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  