(iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - Henri van Breda takes to the stand in his murder trial, a video of a brave woman shows her fighting off hijackers with their own crowbar and we reflect on retiring IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi's role in politics.  Have a look at some of the stories making headlines on Tuesday: SA gets significant boost to host 2023 RWCWhile it will not be made official until November 15, South Africa looks almost certain to host the 2023 Rugby World Cup after having received an official recommendation from World Rugby. Sport24 has the full story I didn't kill my family - Henri #VanBreda testimony Triple murder accused Henri van Breda has testified in his defence in the Western Cape High Court.Scroll through this live update Durban woman fights off hijackers with their own crowbar A video of a woman fighting off her hijackers has emerged online.Watch The top 12 shows South Africans are binge-watching on Showmax With the holiday season upon us, Channel24 thought it would be great to find out exactly what it is that South Africans are binge-watching at the moment. Find out more                                                         Mr Robot. (Photo supplied) Stellenbosch murder: Dad killed, son stabbed while fighting burglars A father was killed and his teen son stabbed in the face during a home invasion in Brandwacht, which is considered to be one of the country's richest neighbourhoods.ReadSEE: Mangosuthu Buthelezi's life in politics In more than six decades in politics, IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi has done it all. Here is a timeline of some of the highlights of his career. Nene-gate: Trillian CEO knew 6 weeks before finance minister was sacked"The day the announcement was made, and the rand was crashing, he apparently made hundreds of millions of rands," whistle-blower reveals.Read further on HuffPost SA'We can all be survivors' - two Joburg women share their triumph over cancer Fourteen million people worldwide have been diagnosed with cancer. News24 spoke to two South African women who have beat the odds. Watch  Dlamini says 'patriarchy' is the reason MPs don't buy her Sassa storySocial Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini says "patriarchy" is the reason MPs don't believe her side of the story in the deadlock to sign a deal with the South African Post Office.Paul Herman filed this reportI will not serve under Ramaphosa - Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile MasinaEkurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina says he will resign if Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa wins the ANC’s December election.More Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  