Grace's undies were new: Zim State lawyers Harare - Underwear donated recently by Zimbabwean First Lady Grace Mugabe to Zanu-PF supporters was brand new, not second hand, lawyers say. State prosecutors made the revelation in a case brought against NewsDay reporter Kenneth Nyangani, who was arrested on Monday and charged with being a "criminal nuisance" for reporting that ruling party MP Esau Mupfumi distributed second hand underwear and night dresses to Zanu-PF supporters on behalf of the first lady at the weekend. Read more on this story here 75 political parties register to contest 2018 polls, says Zim electoral body Harare – Zimbabwe’s electoral body has revealed that the number of political parties registered to contest the 2018 elections has more than doubled, a report says.   According to New Zimbabwe.com, the number of parties to contest the polls has jumped from 35 to 75 with many more expected to join the hotly contested race. The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) chairperson Rita Makarau told a Political Parties forum on Tuesday that it was now up to the parties to make sure that their supporters were registered to vote next year. Read more on this story here  Zimbabwe cash crisis: 3 foreigners held for illegal currency deals Harare - Police in Zimbabwe have arrested three Chinese men and at least 16 locals for illegal currency deals. The arrests come a week after President Robert Mugabe’s government tightened rules to impose heavy jail sentences or fines on offenders and seize their cash. At least $50 000 in local bond notes was seized from the three Chinese nationals after police were tipped off, the state-run Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC) reported on Wednesday. Police detectives traced the activities of the accused people and on 3 October they saw the first accused loading his vehicle with sealed cardboard boxes, ZBC said in an online report. For more on this story click here  Westerners hid mineral exploration maps - Grace Mugabe Harare - Western mining experts hid exploration maps on Zimbabwe’s mineral resource base during the colonial era, but the country is slowly discovering its worth in terms of underground wealth, First Lady Grace Mugabe has said. Addressing investors of African origin based in the United Kingdom at her Mazowe Children’s Home on Tuesday, Mugabe said Zimbabwe was endowed with vast resources, The Heraldreported. "You can actually mention any of the minerals Zimbabwe has that mineral. Even some people believe that we have oil somewhere. Yes some people know. For more on this story click here  Lungu will no longer attend traditional ceremonies Lusaka - Zambian President Edgar Lungu will no longer attend traditional ceremonies as they are dividing the country, according to a report in the Lusaka Times. ZANIS reports that President Lungu explained that some tribal groupings get offended when he fails to attend their ceremonies after being invited. He cited the Kalumba traditional ceremony of the Chewa-speaking people as one such ceremony which he had given a miss.  Read more on this story here  Mozambique mayor shot dead on Day of Peace - report Maputo – The mayor of Nampula city in northern Mozambique has reportedly been killed outside his home, as the southern African country marks the 25th anniversary of the signing of the 1992 peace accord. According to BBC, Mahamudo Amurane was shot three times in the abdomen by an unknown gunman after he led a ceremony to celebrate the Day of Peace. The Day of Peace is a public holiday to commemorate the 1992 signing of an accord to end a 16-year civil war between the ruling Frelimo and opposition Renamo parties. For more on this story click here  Dead man buried with money to 'bribe' God Kampala - The body of a Ugandan civil servant who was buried with Shs200m (about 51 300 Zambian Kwacha) to “bribe” God, has been exhumed. Charles Obong, 52, who worked as a senior personnel officer in the Ministry of Public Service from 2006 to 2016, reportedly wanted to use the cash to redeem his soul before God according to the Zambian Observer. Obong died recently after a long illness and was buried at his ancestral home in a metallic coffin estimated to have cost Shs20m. David Elic said his brother-in-law had left behind a will, dictating that when he died, his wife Margaret should put huge sums of money in his coffin. Read more on this story here    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  