Caryn Dolley (iStock) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - A key figure in the bouncer industry in Cape Town has been arrested on a conspiracy to commit murder charge.Hussain Ait Taleb, a martial arts expert better known in bouncer circles as Hussain Moroccan, appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Wednesday.He was taken into custody on Monday.News24 understands Taleb had somehow sustained head injuries.Bruce Hendricks, of Hassan-Harmse Attorneys who is representing him, declined to comment on the matter.Taleb is expected back in court on Thursday.News24 understands the matter is linked to an incident which happened in Kensington - a gang hotspot about 8km from the Cape Town city centre.Taleb has been involved in nightclub security for decades and at one point worked with now-slain underworld kingpin Cyril Beeka, who ran an infamous bouncer racket in Cape Town. For a detailed breakdown on underworld activities in the Western Cape visit News24's showcase Underworld Unmasked here. Taleb's name cropped up earlier this year in the matter involving the Bellville-based security company Skhosana Maponyane Hall Phillips and Khumalo, trading as The Security Group (TSG). TSG has twice before been the target of police and Hawks operations. And on September 29 Grant Veroni and Vincent Phillips, who work there, were arrested. READ: Hawks arrest 2 in 'underworld' security firearms case Veroni and Phillips were taken into custody on charges, including fraud and others, under the Firearms Control Act. They are expected in the Bellville Magistrate's Court again in early 2018. On TSG's website the "site supervisor" of the company is listed as Houssain Taliep. In April News24 established this person was in fact Taleb. During a brief conversation at the time, Taleb told News24 he had resigned from TSG three months previously. "I'm getting out. I'm just focusing on kickboxing," he had said. Earlier this year a group of men headed by controversial businessman Nafiz Modack started taking over the control of nightclub security from a more established grouping. This resulted in violence and several shootings. During an exclusive interview with News24 in September, Modack had said he was involved with TSG. He said when firearms from the company were first seized by police outside a city centre strip club in April, these had been taken from men who were "protecting" him. A task team, set up by the Hawks to tackle serious threats in the Western Cape, is investigating underworld violence in nightclubs. So far several arrests have been carried out by the team. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  