Caryn Dolley A wig lies on the hospital floor after the alleged fight. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - A fight has apparently broken out at the hospital where Sexy Boys gang leader Jerome "Donkie" Booysen, who was wounded in a shooting at Cape Town International Airport on Wednesday, is admitted. Late on Thursday, police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said the scene was still active and she therefore could not yet comment on what had happened. News24 is withholding Booysen's exact location due to security reasons. It is understood a man, who some sources with close knowledge of the matter say was dressed as a woman, targeted another man with close ties to Booysen on Thursday evening outside the hospital. One source insisted the incident was an attempted hit on the man linked to Booysen. Other sources said Booysen himself was targeted. News24 understands this led to an altercation, with one man, who one source claimed was linked to the 27s gang, being caught. This was not officially confirmed by police. Some images of the scene, which News24 has seen, show police vans parked outside the hospital, as well as a group of men walking around. One image shows a wig on a floor near blood. Another image shows a man sitting on a blood-smeared floor with a bloody face. A women's pump shoe is next to him on the floor. Controversial businessman Nafiz Modack, as well as several other men, were at the scene. It is understood he was called for assistance by the man linked to Booysen who was one of the apparent targets of the incident. Booysen was wounded in the Cape Town International Airport on Wednesday. A second man was also wounded in this shooting. This was the third attempt on Jerome Booysen's life in roughly six months.  Also read: Cape Town airport shooting another attempted hit on suspected gang leader Jerome 'Donkie' Booysen Both Jerome and his brother Colin Booysen have been involved in the nightclub security scene. Colin Booysen has been working with Modack, who earlier this year started taking control of nightclub security from a more established grouping. This takeover has resulted in violence. For a detailed breakdown of underworld activities in the Western Cape see News24's Underworld Unmasked showcase here. Several sources, with intimate knowledge of the matter, said Booysen was shot on Wednesday in retaliation for the killing of Donovan Jacobs, 40, who they said was a 28s gang member and who was shot dead in a Stellenbosch club last Saturday. Also read: Cape Town airport hit on alleged gang boss could be revenge for Stellenbosch club killing Nicole Muller, 30, a patron at the Cubana in Plein Street and a mother of two young boys, was also killed in the shooting. A third person was wounded. Sources warned that more retaliation shootings were expected. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  