Jana van der Merwe PHOTO: YOU archives Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The
murder trial of the mother and stepfather of Poppie van der Merwe will start on
Monday in the high court in Pretoria – more than a year after the toddler’s
death. Poppie
died on 25 October last year on a smallholding near Brits in North West,
allegedly at the hands of her mother, Louisa Koekemoer, and stepfather, Kobus
Koekemoer. The
toddler, who’d been severely beaten and kicked, was declared dead upon her
arrival at hospital. Carla
van der Merwe, Poppie’s grandmother on her biological father’s side, sent a
WhatsApp message to YOU on Wednesday: “The year went by quickly, but the pain
stays with us. But there is a God and in His power we find comfort.” She was
unable to confirm whether she, her son – Poppie’s dad, Christo – and her
husband, Johan, would feel up to attending the trial. Christo
is broken-hearted after his child’s death. Before she died, he’d allegedly not
been allowed to see her very much. He told YOU in a previous interview that he
misses his child terribly. At the
time of the tragedy Poppie and her elder brother had only been living with
their mom and stepdad on the smallholding for a month since moving there from
Orania in the Northern Cape.  Louisa
and Kobus met in Orania. They were married in November 2015. The state will
argue that Poppie’s abuse had started while the family were still living in
Orania. Kobus
was arrested on the day of Poppie’s death and Louisa a few months later. They’ve
been behind bars ever since after both were denied bail. The
couple are facing charges of murder, assault with intent to cause grievous
bodily harm, and child abuse. A total of 10 days have been set aside for the
trial. Louisa’s
mother, Susan Botha, told YOU on Wednesday she hasn’t had any contact with her
daughter in months and doesn’t know if she’ll be attending the trial. She lives
with family in the Eastern Cape. “Actually
I don’t want to talk to you about these things,” she said. Poppie
was buried in the Westonaria cemetery in Gauteng. In his last letter to his
daughter, which he read at the funeral, Christo wrote: “Sleep softly, baby girl.
You were only three years old. Your little beloved life was so precious to me. “Your
deep blue eyes and blond curls and your heart of gold. You’ve left a lasting
imprint on our hearts and I can still hear you calling my name.”  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  