Alex Mitchley Stefan Nel, Dicky Junior van Rooyen, Marius Harding, Ockert Muller and Joshua Liam Scholtz stand in the Pretoria North Court, accused of assaulting a couple in a KFC drive-through. (Deaan Vivier, Gallo Images, Beeld) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Pretoria – Police are still busy with their investigation of the five men accused of assaulting a couple at a KFC drive-through in Montana, the Pretoria North Magistrate's Court heard on Wednesday. In postponing the case, the court heard that one of the accused, Marius Harding, was still in Port Shepstone in KwaZulu-Natal, facing an unrelated charge of theft. State prosecutor Craig Snyman told the court that there had been complications in getting Harding back to Pretoria. ALSO READ: State maintains KFC attack was racially motivated He added that the postponement to November 9 was "marked final for further investigation". Harding, along with DJ van Rooyen, Stephan Nel, Joshua Schultz and Ockert Muller, have been charged with attempted murder, assault with the intent to cause grievous bodily harm and pointing of a firearm. They allegedly assaulted a couple during the early hours of August 3 at a KFC drive-through. Parts of the alleged attack were filmed and subsequently went viral on social media. Bail decision overturned The matter has also been scrutinised in court as racially motivated. On Tuesday, Van Rooyen, Nel and Schultz were granted bail after successfully appealing a ruling by Pretoria North Magistrate Mothloki Rapulana, who denied them bail in August. North Gauteng High Court acting judge Andre Petersen overturned the lower court's decision, and granted them bail of R5 000 each. He also ordered that the accused not interfere with any State witnesses or go to the Kolonnade shopping centre, where the incident took place. ALSO READ: State maintains KFC attack was racially motivated Muller was previously granted bail in August, while Harding abandoned his bid for bail. News24 previously revealed that Harding was arrested in 2014 on charges of assault and crimen injuria for allegedly assaulting three petrol pump attendants and using racial slurs at a garage in Petrus Steyn, Free State. Harding also faces a charge of theft in a separate case in KwaZulu-Natal. "I noticed there are conditions attached to your bail... so see that you abide by them," Rapulana warned as she postponed the matter.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  