Paul Herman Bongumusa Makhathini. (Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - New SABC board chairperson Bongumusa Makhathini has stepped down from his role as chairperson of the Bongi Ngema-Zuma Foundation. Makhathini was appointed as SABC board chairperson on Tuesday by President Jacob Zuma, more than a month after Parliament's approval of candidates. Eleven others were also appointed to non-executive board positions, including deputy chairperson Febe Potgieter-Gqubule. Makhathini told News24 on Wednesday that he resigned from the position this morning, after receiving his appointment letter at 16:00 on Tuesday. He chose to resign from his role at the non-government organization following perceptions that it would serve as a conflict of interest, and wanted to erase doubt in the mind of the public. He wanted people to focus on his credentials and his work going forward, rather than perception of possible political connections through a foundation that handles diabetes awareness. The Broadcasting, Electronic, Media and Allied Workers Union (Bemawu) on Tuesday called on Makhathini to step down from the foundation to ensure there was no conflict of interest. Concerns about Zuma connection The DA and Bemawu raised concerns on Tuesday about the politically connected chairperson and deputy chairperson of the board. READ: Concerns about Zuma connections of SABC board chair, deputy Potgieter-Gqubule was chief of staff for ANC presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma when she headed the African Union Commission. Her name also appears on some slates for the ANC's top six to be elected at the party's conference in December. Shortly after the SABC board announcement, Zuma also announced another Cabinet reshuffle. Minister Ayanda Dlodlo was shifted from communications to the home affairs portfolio, with energy minister Mmamoloko Kubayi replacing her. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  