Derrick Spies Dan Plato (City of Cape Town) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape
Town - Western Cape Community Safety Minister Dan Plato met with various
religious leaders in the Marikana informal settlement in Philippi East, Cape
Town on Saturday to discuss safety issues in the area. The meeting formed part of a
weekend-long drive to engage with communities affected by crime.   Plato said the engagement focused
specifically on youth safety and how religious leaders in the area could play a
bigger role in ensuring the safety of everyone in the area. He also spoke about the various
development programmes, such as the Youth Safety and Religion Partnership
Programme (YSRP), where youth can get involved in various activities during
school holidays. “The YSRP is a flagship
initiative of the Department of Community Safety, aimed specifically at
increasing safety through implementing targeted anti-social behaviour and youth
initiatives in partnership with the religious fraternity of the province,” said
Plato. Plato said the initiatives,
hosted by various religious institutions, had to be educational and aimed at
building self-esteem, confidence, and assist the youth to acquire knowledge and develop positive
life-skills. The programme has been in effect
since 2012 when 48 institutions were
co-funded and they successfully implemented youth safety interventions in 34
priority areas; reaching a total of 11 623 youths. The YSRP received a total
allocation of R3.670 million for the 2017/18 financial year and would be
focusing on high-risk areas including
Nyanga, Gugulethu, Paarl-East, Villiersdorp, Saldanha Bay, Delft, Mfuleni,
Kraaifontein, Mitchell’s Plain, Khayelitsha, Philippi-East, Bishop Lavis,
Manenberg, Imizamo Yethu and Masiphumelele. “The Youth Safety and Religious
Partnership (YSRP) programme is currently
in its 5th year of implementation.” “Through partnering with the
religious fraternity in the province during school holiday periods, the
Department has reached more than 68 077 youths with programmes focussing on
awareness and prevention of drug abuse, gangsterism, gender-based violence,
child trafficking and the provision of life skills development and practical
safety tips,” Plato said.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  