Paul Herman Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. (Rajesh Jantilal/AFP/Getty Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town - The Western Cape African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) has formally nominated Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma for ANC president, with Mpumalanga premier David Mabuza nominated as her deputy. The provincial youth league on Monday also declared its preferred top six and National Executive Members (NEC) for the ANC's new leadership, to be elected at its elective conference in Johannesburg in December. Free State premier Ace Magashula has been nominated for secretary general, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula for deputy secretary general and Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa as chairperson. Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, whose department amassed R1.6bn in irregular expenditure in the 2016/17 financial year, was nominated as treasurer general. Additional NEC members from the Western Cape include: Lynne Brown, Lulama Mvimbi, Justin De Allende, Neil De Beer, Bongani Mkhongi, Nobulumko Nkondlo, Songezo Mjongile, Castro Leholo, Jabu Mfusi, Tandi Mahambehlala, Moutie Richards, Ronalda Nulamango, Naledi Pandor, Lumka Yengeni, Braam Hannekom, Windy Plaatjies, Trudy Dijana. Among the many additional NEC members from other provinces nominated are: Malusi Gigaba, Kebby Maphatsoe, Ayanda Dlodlo, Pule Mabe, Carl Niehaus, Njabulo Nzuza, Ronald Lamola, Ben Martins, Febe Potgieter-Gqubele, Bavelile Hlongwa, Baleka Mbete, Collen Maine, Gwede Mantashe, Jeff Radebe, Phumulo Masualle, Mlibo Qhoboshiane, Andile Lungisa, Maite Mashabe, Paul Mashatile, Buti Manamela, Tina Joemat-Pettersson, Nkhensani Kubayi, Mzwandile Masina, Thandi Moroka, Vuyo Mhlakaza, Vuyiswa Tulelo, Desmond Van Rooyen, Faith Muthambi, Reggie Nkabinde, Zweli Mkhize, Lindiwe Zulu, Alven Botes, Thoko Didiza, Obed Bapela, Thandi Modise. The provincial youth league will table its nominations at the national youth league's next NEC meeting. "As the ANC’s preparatory school, we have nominated leaders who have developed organically from the ranks of the ANCYL," said provincial chairperson Muhammad Khalid Sayed. "We believe that these cadres [have] the organisational and political acumen to make a meaningful contribution towards the rebuilding and revitalisation of our glorious movement the ANC." The Western Cape ANCYL, and the broader provincial executive committee, have spent much of 2017 fighting factional battles, most notably over the preference of Dlamini-Zuma or Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as the next ANC president. Activists in the provincial youth league have, on a number of occasions, distanced themselves from the structure's official nominations, while the six regions and members on the provincial executive have also differed publicly. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The latest Tweets from News24 (@News24). News24 is Southern Africa and Africa's premier online news resource reaching over 2.3 million local users each month. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  