Vonani Ngomana, Franco Havenga and Derrick Spies Police investigate the scene where two people were shot on Saturday morning in the Cubana club in Stellenbosch. (Picture: Supplied, Franco Havenga) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     A group of foreign nationals attack police in Vanderbijlpark while they were raiding a suspected drug den. Watch.

WATCH Cape Town - One of the patrons who was killed at a Stellenbosch nightclub shooting on Saturday was a wife celebrating a friend's 30th birthday party, an eyewitness has said. Two people were shot dead, and another injured inside a popular Stellenbosch nightclub after a shooting incident, Western Cape police confirmed on Saturday.  It is believed the shooting is gang related. An eyewitness told MatieMedia on Saturday that the shooting started some time around midnight, from outside the club. One of the victims ran into the kitchen, where he was shot. A 30-year-old woman who was on the dance floor was also shot. “The woman was just unfortunate because there were about 30 people on the dance floor and she was the one who got shot,” said the eyewitness, who did not want to be named. “It was not a student because her husband was later called to the scene,” he added. Her husband arrived on the scene shortly after the shooting, shouting, “My wife, my wife!” She was at Cubana with a group of friends celebrating a 30th birthday party. Another eyewitness said that two men fled the scene after gunshots were heard. One tall person with a black hoodie and one shorter person were seen getting into a black Citi Golf with a CY number plate. The street outside Cubana was chaotic after the shooting, with more than 20 police officers combing the scene and several police cars blocking the entrance to the club. Stellenbosch University senior spokesperson Martin Viljoen told News24 the university community learnt of the news with great concern and sadness, and sends its sincere condolences to all those affected. No students were killed in the incident, to their knowledge. He said it was possible that students were inside the club at the start of the shooting, raising concern over current safety in public spaces. "Stellenbosch University has alerted its 24-hour ER crisis line that students may have been affected by the incident. Students can call 0825570880 for support and counselling," he said on Saturday. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  