'I've seen many people suffering... it's now time to meet
Mugabe in parliament' Bulawayo – A Zimbabwean pastor who prophesied that
President Robert
Mugabe would die in October is reportedly planning to contest the
forthcoming elections as an independent candidate. According to New
Zimbabwe.com, Pastor Philip Mugadza would be contesting in the 2018
elections as a candidate for the Gutu south constituency seat in Masvingo
province. Mugadza, the report said, had become the "first well
known person to announce his intention to run in the ruling Zanu-PF
stronghold".  For more on this story click here  'Starving' Zim students in Russia 'resort to
prostitution' - report Moscow – "Starving" Zimbabwean students studying
under the presidential scholarship in Russia have reportedly resorted to
prostitution to cover basic living expenses after government failed to pay
their annual stipends. According to New
Zimbabwe.com, some of the students, most of them from poor backgrounds,
said that they had gone for over a year without any financial support from
government.  One of the students was quoted as saying that some of her
colleagues had since resorted to prostitution for survival. For more on this story click here  Kenya's police say 4 killed in opposition demonstrations Nairobi - Kenya's national police say four people have been
killed in recent opposition demonstrations as the fresh presidential election
approaches next week. Friday's statement says the deaths occurred between October
2 and Monday in what it calls "confrontations between rioters and police
officers." The statement comes after Human Rights Watch and Amnesty
International this week said police killed 67 people in opposition protests in
the days after August's election results were announced. Read more on this story here  Uganda police hold opposition leader over attempted
murder Kampala - Ugandan police have detained the country's most
prominent opposition leader over allegations of attempted murder. Police spokesperson Asan Kasingye said on Friday that
four-time presidential candidate Kizza Besigye is being held in the capital, Kampala,
following violent clashes on Wednesday between police and opposition supporters
in a remote southwestern town. Kasingye says Besigye will be produced in court to face
charges of attempted murder, but he gives no details. Read more on this story here  Thousands gather at Somalia attack site to pray Mogadishu - Thousands of anguished Somalis have gathered to
pray at the site of the country's deadliest attack and to mourn the hundreds of
victims. A sheikh leading the prayers said that "this pain will
last for years". More than 300 people were killed and nearly 400 wounded
in Saturday's truck bombing, with scores missing. Long lines of mourners stood in front of bombed-out
buildings. Somalia's government has blamed the al-Shabaab extremist
group for the attack. For more on this story click here     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  