Caryn Dolley Two people were shot inside a Camps Bay cafe in an incident believed to be linked to an underworld power struggle for control of the security industry. (Picture: Supplied) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Cape Town – A suspect has been arrested for a shooting in an upmarket Camps Bay establishment in which two patrons were wounded in April – an incident linked to underworld violence. It is understood more arrests are on the cards. Those close to the mammoth probe into underworld violence say recent arrests are unravelling an intricate network of illicit activities and relationships. Western Cape Hawks spokesperson Captain Lloyd Ramovha on Monday said the suspect, Jordan Fabe, 25, who was taken into custody on Friday, appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Monday morning. Fabe was expected back in the dock in a week. "The Hawks’ serious organized crime unit took over the case after it became apparent that the incident was linked to the alleged club scene turf war in the Western Cape," Ramovha said. Two men were wounded in Café Caprice in Camps Bay on April 17. Three suspects were initially arrested for the shooting, but were later released from custody. In an exclusive interview with News24 about two weeks ago, controversial businessman Nafiz Modack said he had been the target of the Café Caprice shooting. READ: EXCLUSIVE: People want me dead because of my security industry connections – underworld figure Modack "That particular day, we were supposed to have a meeting there. At the last minute, I cancelled," he had said. Underworld violence started surging in Cape Town late last year when a new grouping of men, headed by Modack, started taking control of nightclub security from a more established grouping. The takeover sparked violence and several shootings. For a detailed breakdown on underworld activities in the province visit News24’s showcase: UNDERWORLD UNMASKED A patron and a DJ were wounded in another shooting, which happened just outside Coco nightclub in the Cape Town city centre on May 5, 2017. In early September, Naeem Harris, 21, of Portlands, was arrested for this incident.  News24 understands that Harris was allegedly standing outside the establishment when he shot towards it. Firearms arrests On Friday, in a further clampdown on underworld activities, two suspects were arrested as part of a massive investigation into illegal guns, nightclub violence and private security. The two, Grant Veroni and Vincent Phillips, work at the Bellville-based security company Skhosana Maponyane Hall Phillips and Khumalo, trading as The Security Group (TSG), which has twice before been the target of police and Hawks operations. On July 12, police seized six shotguns, two handguns and ammunition from TSG. These guns may be sent for ballistic testing to see if they were used in recent shootings. TSG failed to get a court order to have the weapons returned. READ MORE: EXCLUSIVE: 'Fake' employees used to get guns - inside the underworld nightclub violence investigation The company was previously involved in a similar court application to get back guns seized outside a city centre strip club on April 21. This application succeeded and the weapons were returned. During the exclusive interview with News24, Modack had said he was involved with TSG. He has said when firearms from the company were first seized by police outside a city centre strip club in April, these had been taken from men who were "protecting" him.  Keep updated on the latest news by subscribing to our free newsletter. Follow News24 on Twitter 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  