Nation Nyoka Police Minister Fikile Mbalula (Jan Gerber, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Learners and teachers explained what it is like trying to get an education in Nyanga - the 'murder capital' of South Africa - where residents live in constant fear of violent assault, and where police seem helpless in the face of soaring rates of murder, rape and robbery.WATCH Cape Town – Samora Machel informal settlement is to receive a brand new police station and Nyanga a dedicated Tactical Response Team in an effort to curb crime in the areas, police minister Fikile Mbalula said on Thursday.  "We are going to build one [police station], so it will be up and running soon to service their needs. The added resources and the establishments of TRT units are some of many immediate steps taken to address these challenges that confronted us," Mbalula said.  The announcement comes after a spate of unabated violence in the areas, in which many lives were lost. In October, 11 people were gunned down in separate shootings in the Marikana informal settlement in Phillippi East. READ: 'We come to school not knowing if we'll leave alive' - teachers, learners in Nyanga Mbalula had previously met with community members who expressed their frustration and concern over killings in the area during an imbizo.  They asked the government to intervene.  Mbalula met with Nyanga community members and updated them on the ministry’s efforts towards fighting crime, as well as arrests made after a raid.  In a statement, he added that some cases involving suspects were currently before the courts.  Among some of the other interventions announced was an increase in resources at Nyanga Police Station, including the filling of vacant posts and increasing staff.  Mbalula announced that he would monitor Nyanga precinct’s policing efforts after it "acquired the notorious title of being the murder capital of the country for the past 10 years". READ: Crime Stats: Western Cape is the murder centre of South Africa  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  