Fight over Grace Mugabe's 'planned' ascendency to VP intensifies - reportHarare – Youths from Zimbabwe's ruling Zanu-PF are reportedly divided over plans to amend the party's constitution to accommodate a female vice president. Reports last week indicated that there was a proposed push within Zanu-PF to include a woman in the presidium, a move seen by many as a way by the party's G40 faction to ensure that its leader Grace Mugabe became vice president. Zanu-PF was divided into two distinct factions that sought to outwit each other in the battle to succeed President Robert Mugabe. Mugabe has failed to groom a successor in his 37 years in power in the southern African country. For more on this story click here 5 dead, 60 arrested during Togo protests for term limits Lome - Togo's security minister says at least five people have been killed in clashes between security forces and opposition supporters demonstrating for presidential term limits. Damehame Yark also said on state television that about 60 protesters were arrested throughout Togo. Wednesday was the first of two days of protests by the opposition demanding the reinstatement of Togo's original constitution, which they say would bar President Faure Gnassingbe from a fourth term in 2020. Read more on this story here 'Champion of land redistribution' Mugabe
honoured by youths in Russia – report Sochi – Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe,
93, is reportedly set to be honoured by African youths and students attending
the 19th youth festival held in Sochi, Russia for "championing the fight
against imperialism". According to the state-owned Herald newspaper,
African youths at the festival had set aside a day to celebrate Mugabe
"for his determined stand against imperialism".  The event, said the report, would run under the
theme: "President Robert Mugabe: The champion of land redistribution and
total restoration of natural resources from imperialists to the African
masses".  For more on this story click here Two South Africans held in Tanzania for
homosexuality Nairobi - Two South Africans are among 12 men
arrested for presumed homosexuality in Tanzania as part of an ongoing crackdown
against gays, police said on Wednesday. "We arrested the criminals at (the hotel)
Peacock - they were promoting homosexuality. Two are South Africans, one
Ugandan and nine Tanzanians," Dar es Salaam police head Lazaro Mambosasa
said at a weekly press conference. He said the 12 were being questioned ahead of being
sent to a court and did not say when they had been arrested. For more on this story click here  Somali president vows war on Shabaab
after devastating bomb Mogadishu - Somali President Mohamed Abdullahi
Mohamed vowed on Wednesday to step up the war against al-Shabaab, as he
addressed thousands at a rally in Mogadishu for the victims of the city's
worst-ever bombing. Protesters wearing red bands around their heads
marched through the scene of the truck bombing, a once bustling district,
before gathering at a stadium where they chanted: "We are ready to
fight". Residents of the Somali capital, while wearily
accustomed to regular bombs and attacks by the Islamist militants, have been
outraged by the strike on Saturday which left at least 276 dead and 300
wounded. Read more on this story here Mujuru: I often clashed with Mugabe over his 'bad economic policies' Harare – Zimbabwe's ex-vice president Joice Mujuru has
reportedly claimed that she often clashed with President Robert Mugabe over
his "bad economic policies". According to New
Zimbabwe, Mujuru who now leads the National People’s Party (NPP), said
that her disagreements with Mugabe made the nonagenarian leader unhappy and
resulted in her dismissal from government. Mujuru said this while speaking to hundreds of vendors in
Bindura early this week. Read more on this story here               24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  