Former soccer referee Ian McLeod.(Gallo Images) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The Gupta family and some of their associates have established an extensive network of front companies in and around Dubai that has been used to conceal and allegedly launder hundreds of millions of rands in dubious payments linked to government contracts in South Africa.WATCH Cape Town - Catalonia's parliament voted to declare independence from Spain; News24 investigates in Dubai and; a Nyanga woman may be among the first parents or guardians to be charged in terms of new child chastisement limitations. Here are some of today’s top stories. Dubai: the Guptas' city of shells The Gupta family and some of their associates have established an extensive network of front companies in and around Dubai that has been used to conceal and allegedly launder hundreds of millions of rands in dubious payments linked to government contracts in South Africa. See the full investigation here. 'I cannot forgive them' - mother of coffin assault victim "I cannot forgive them because they failed to have mercy on my child when they forced him into the coffin," said Lonia Mlotshwa, shortly after her son’s attackers were sentenced to jail. Read here. EXCLUSIVE: Families of coffin assault duo had to sell their possessions to survive The 5-year-old daughter of one of the men who forced Victor Mlotshwa into a coffin was so angry with her father, she told people he was dead. Read the exclusive here. Ex-SA Soccer World Cup referee dies Former Premier Soccer League (PSL) referee Ian McLeod, who became the first South African to referee in a FIFA World Cup, died at the age of 63 on Thursday night.  Read more on Sport24. Child, 12, beaten over chores could test new 'hiding' judgment A Nyanga woman may be among the first parent or guardian to be charged in terms of new child chastisement limitations, after allegedly assaulting a 12-year-old girl who took too long to return from an errand. Read more here. Catalan parliament declares independence from Spain Catalonia's parliament voted to declare independence from Spain and proclaim a republic, just as Madrid is poised to impose direct rule on the semi-autonomous region to stop it in its tracks. Read here. Zizi Kodwa's open letter: 'We have lost our way' I have no guides to ask how you are, given the enormity of the difficulties and challenges confronting your movement, the ANC. Nonetheless I thought it appropriate to write you a letter on the occasion of your centenary celebrations. Read the full letter here. Currie Cup final last chance to impress Bok coach Winning the Currie Cup will be the priority for a number of youngsters involved in Saturday's showdown between the Sharks and Western Province in Durban, but there is also the added incentive of putting in one last big performance to stake a claim for Springbok selection.  Read here. POLOTIKI | Episode 19: Gigaba 'captured by ambition' This week, we focus on SA Inc - we are broke, with no recovery plan. Listen   Would you like to subscribe to News24's Newsletters and get a wrap of the day's news? If so, click here  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  