Makhosandile Zulu THE Msunduzi Municipality has submitted its current and future projects related to climate-change adaptation and the reduction of it’s effects and CO2 and greenhouse gases emissions to the One Plant City Challenge (OPCC). THE OPCC is a World Wildlife Fund (WWF) initiative of the International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives (ICLEI). The purpose of the initiative is to bring attention to solutions for climate-change adaptation, the reduction of this and CO2 and greenhouse gas emissions and reward cities that are using these solutions. The PMB Executive Council agreed last Thursday at its meeting that approval be granted to the municipality to participate in the OPCC. “[Submissions the municipality has made are] projects [that] directly and/or indirectly relate to climate-change adaptation and mitigation, CO2 and greenhouse gas reduction, improved sustainability and mobility within the city,” municipal spokesperson, Thobeka Mafumbatha said. She said because the focus area for the OPCC is improved transportation and mobility, these projects include the proposed routes for the city, which are the IRPTN and NMT routes  “Other projects [are] kerbside recycling, recycling in municipal offices, a waste-to-energy plant at the landfill site, gumtree-removal projects, and the rehabilitation of the Baynerspruit stream, to name a few,” Mafumbatha said. The OPCC cities around the world will make presentations of the plans for low carbon development, which must include an increase in the use of sustainable and efficient renewable energy solutions as well as sustainable urban transport systems for the coming decades. The challenge, previously known as the Earth Hour City Challenge, also gives participating cities the opportunity to demonstrate how they are delivering on the 2015 Paris Agreement which, in summary, unifies nations in a determined effort to combat climate change, adapt to its effects and intensify assistance provided to developing countries to do so. According to the WWF website: “Data is entered on the carbonn® Climate Registry, and outreach and support is provided in collaboration with ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability. Final plans and data are then reviewed by an international jury of experts tasked with identifying the most outstanding cities. “After a process involving scrutiny of submissions and jury deliberations, national and global winners will be selected and awarded at a global prize ceremony.” Data is entered on the carbonn® Climate Registry, and outreach and support is provided in collaboration with ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability. Final plans and data are then reviewed by an international jury of experts tasked with identifying the most outstanding cities.  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  