Nation Nyoka Slow traffic on the N1 North in Pretoria, from Zambezi Road to Centurion during the Black Monday protest. (Alex Mitchley, News24) 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     Johannesburg – Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has granted concessions for matric pupils who arrived late for their final exams on Monday, as a result of delays caused by Black Monday protests, the department has confirmed.  "All learners who arrived late were allowed into examination rooms at different centres in Tshwane and Sedibeng areas, even those who accessed centres beyond the one hour cut-off time. It is important to note that some learners were also allowed to write at alternative centres," a statement read.  The department added that most of the learners who arrived late were given an opportunity to write their exams.  WATCH: 21 chilling pictures of the #BlackMonday protests They, therefore, expect that only a small number of students would have missed their exam.  Administrative prescripts will be invoked for those students, the department said.  "It is in our best interests not to disadvantage our learners for the unfortunate eventuality which is beyond their control. It is regrettable that they had to write this important paper under this tormenting condition," Lesufi said in a statement. Follow our live report of the #BlackMonday protest here Are you supporting 'Black Monday'? Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos. #BoackMonday Metro police negotiating the gridlock on Zambezi road towards the N1 highway @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/MOx1eLaTHE #BlackMonday Another go slow has just started on Zambezi road, Metro police fighting with drivers, but no arrests made @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/bWCUWbcjTA #Blackmonday No blockade at the Lynwood off ramp in Pretoria, but serious go slow and delays @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/nRmxOEaJeA #Blackmonday traffic on the N1 North backed from Zambezi all the way into Centurion @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/kBWtAzreua  24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  