iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Harare – Zimbabwe’s electoral body has invited interested parties keen on observing the on-going biometric voter registration (BVR) exercise to register with the chief elections officer for accreditation, says a report. According to NewsDay, the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) says that prospective observers would  be registered upon payment of $10 for local observers, $20 for observers from Africa, $50 for foreign envoys and $100 for international observers. Local journalists accredited with the Zimbabwe Media Commission are expected to pay $10 while foreign reporters were expected to pay $50 to cover the BVR exercise. The ZEC has reportedly also embarked on a voter education campaign, five days before a registration blitz ahead of next year’s elections. It had previously said that the education campaign was going to be a seven-day exercise, but due to logistical problems this has been shortened to five days, reports NewsDay. "Our voter educators will be deployed from Friday to Tuesday, when voter registration starts, Rita Makarau was quoted as saying. Meanwhile, the often under fire electoral body has received the remaining 2 600 biometric voter registration kits which are expected to bolster its efforts to register voters for next year's polls. Early this week Makarau confirmed the arrival of the biometric kits, adding that they were undergoing acceptance tests. The latest consignment brings the number of BVR kits to 3 000. The kits were provided by a Chinese group and are expected to be used for the creation of a new biometric voters' roll for the crunch polls. "I can confirm that the kits are in the country now and that at the moment they are undergoing acceptance tests by our technicians and technical experts. "This is meant to see that they meet the specifications that we gave to the supplier." She said the process should end by Wednesday after which the electoral body will know how many [kits] it is accepting of the 2 600 that have been supplied. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  