DRUM Digital Photo by Fred Duval/Getty Images 
	        Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories
	     The Oscar Pistorius movie by Lifetime has angered many South Africans, and his family is set to take legal action against the film. Oscar's brother Carl Pistorius said in a series of tweets that the family will be taking legal action. "The film was made without any consultation of the Pistorius family. The film was made with blatant disregard of both families," he said. The biopic is set to depict the full story of Pistorius leading up to the day of the fatal shooting.  South African-born actor Andreas Damm plays the role of Oscar Pistorius while German model Toni Garrn stars as Reeva Steenkamp. The one minute trailer which was recently released by Entertainment Weekly has left South Africans furious. People took to twitter to express their thoughts on the film. ”A human is #Dead a #Killer sentenced 6year in prison and boom he is being honoured with a movie Oscar Pistorius #FunnyHowLifeIs” tweeted @mlungisib. ” Grand grand who commissioned this Oscar Pistorius's movie? This borders on appropriation of OUR stories” another tweep complained. Some people even went as far as labelling the movie ‘trash’. What angered South Africans even further are the surprising news of Steenkamp’s family not knowing anything about the movie.  “They are still mourning the loss of their daughter and had no knowledge of the making of the film.They were never consulted. Nobody asked their input. In fact, they never even knew until now that a movie had been made” Tania Koen, the lawyer for Barry and June Steenkamp, told the Pretoria News. “I don't know why they doing this Oscar Pistorius movie if Reeva’s family is not ok with it ,such disrespect!!” @KING_ZAMA1 complained. Oscar Pistorius: Blade Runner Killer will be released in the US on November 11. A South African release date has not yet been confirmed. 24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.  